ESA NESS OS

(Legistla

The Senate met at 12 meridian, on
the expiration of the recess, and was
called to order by Hon. Ropert C. Byrp,
a Senator from the State of West Vir-
zinia.

PRAYER

The Chaplain, the Reverend Edward
L. R, Elson, D.D., offered the following
prayer:

Eternal God, ever near to those who
call upon Thee in spirit and in truth,
as Thou didst lead our fathers through
jark valleys, across rough plains, and
over mountains of difficulty so wilt Thou
oe our guide and strength in this perilous
nour of history. Endue with wisdom those
to whom has been committed the au-
thority of government. Hold this Nation
steady, firm, and resolute in the ways of
justice and truth. To our countrymen
now captive to hostile powers, send Thy
comforting and strengthening grace.
Hasten their freedom and the renewal of
concord and cooperation among the na-
tions. Enlighten those who are in dark-
ness, correct the erring and lead Thy
people in the way everlasting. As we offer
our noon-day prayer wilt Thou hear also
the deeper unspoken prayers of our
nearts. And to Thee shall be our thanks-
giving and praise. Amen.

APPOINTMENT OF ACTING PRESI-
DENT PRO TEMPORE

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will please read a communication to the
Senate from the President pro tempore
(Mr. Macnuson) .

The legislative clerk read the follow-
ing letter:

U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, D.C., November 29, 1979.
To the Senate:

Under the provisions of rule I, section 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I here-
9y appoint the Honorable Rosert C. Brrp, a
senator from the State of West Virginia,
0 perform the duties of the Chair.

Warren G. MAGNUSON,
President pro tempore.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD thereupon as-

sumed the chair as Acting President pro
fempore.

RECOGNITION OF LEADERSHIP

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CHURCH). The Senator from Alaska is
recognized.

THE JOURNAL

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Journal of
the proceedings be approved to date.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRADLEY). Without objection, it is so
ordered. The Senator from West Vir-
ginia.

@ This “bullet” symbol identifies st

AUTHENTICATED
US. GOVERNMENT,
INFORMATION

GPO
fe EOE OWN 9 FS VUUUEEOULUE a's

lative day of Thursday, November 15, 1979)

PRESIDENT CARTER ON IRAN

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
1 his press conference last night, Presi-
ent Carter gave a strong and effective
resentation of the U.S. position on the
mericans being held hostage in Iran.

President Carter, in a calm and forth-
ight manner, emphasized the deter-
ined and unified approach which this
ation is taking in the face of this con-
nuing crisis.

The President is correct in stating that
ne American people stand together,
nited in our determination to protect
ne lives of Americans and the honor of
nis country.

Yesterday the Senate unanimously ap-
roved a resolution (S. Res. 292) citing
nis determination and this unity in our
forts to achieve the immediate, safe,
ad unconditional—unconditional—re-
ase of the U.S. personnel being held
ostage in Iran. This was a resolution
hich I introduced jointly with the dis-
nguished minority leader, the distin-
uished majority whip, the distinguished
inority whip, the distinguished chair-
ian, and the distinguished ranking
uinority member of the Committee on
oreign Relations, and 45 other Senators.

In his remarks to the press and the
ation last night, the President was firm
ut he was not threatening. He warned of
rave consequences to Iran if the hos-
ges are harmed, and he repeated that
1is Nation will not submit to blackmail.
‘e emphasized our desire to resolve this
\atter by peaceful means.

Wisely, I believe, the President said he
as not setting specific deadlines as to
hen certain action might be taken. In-
ead, as the President stated, we are
roceeding in every possible way to ob-
1in the release of the hostages, while at
1e same time protecting the honor, in-
grity, and basic principles of this Na-
on. In stating that he was not setting
ny specific deadlines, however, the
resident indicated that he was keeping
is options open.

During the press conference the Presi-
ent also took the opportunity to under-
ore the point that this is not a con-
‘ontation between our Nation and the
lamic world. We have and want to
aintain strong relations with Moslem
ations. As the President stated, what
occurring in Iran is not typical of the
foslem faith in any way; rather“it is
1e misguided action of some in Iran
ho are acting contrary to the funda-
ental principles of international law,
iplomacy, and religion.

The President also cited the growing
vidence of international support for the
S. position and for the release of the
ostages. We hope for a further demon-
ration of this at the forthcoming

statements or insertions which are not spoken by '
p AVE

eeting of the United Nations Secu-
y Council.

There should be no doubt about the
ity of support in this Nation—and in-
mationally—for the immediate end
this grave situation in Iran.

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, will the
nator yield at that point?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes; I am
ud to yield.

Mr. CHURCH. First of all, I wish to
sociate myself with the remarks of the
tinguished majority leader concern-
z the statement of the President last
ening and the unity that exists be-
een Congress and the Presidency in
is crisis. That was fully expressed by
2 adoption yesterday by both Houses
the resolution to which the Senator
is referred; and, as a further indica-
n of the common purpose supported
' both Congress and the Presidency,
» Secretary of State has invited me
id the ranking Republican member of
> Senate Foreign Relations Commit-
, together with the chairman and
nking Republican member of the
use Foreign Affairs Committee, to at-
nd the session of the Security Coun-
of the United Nations that we antic-
ite will take place on Saturday.

[ thought the record should show that
s is a further indication of the single
sition taken by this country and sup-
rted fully by the Congress of the
ited States. The hostages must be re-
sed. They must be returned safely to
> United States, and that must be done
omptly and unconditionally.

Once that has been accomplished, ave-
es will be open; but until that is ac-
mplished, the United States does not
fend to submit to any form of black-
iil. I commend the majority leader for
e position he has taken from the out-
; of this crisis, and for the opportunity
at he has extended to all Members of
e Senate to be fully briefed from time
time by the Secretary of State on de-
lopments. That, I think, has contrib-
ed to the degree of support that the
nate has shown for the President dur-
z these very dark and sobering days.
[ thank the majority leader.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
hank the distinguished chairman of
> Foreign Relations Committee. I also
ank him for the leadership that he has
monstrated in this critical situation.
has been unstinting in his support of
2 President, and so has the ranking
publican member of the Foreign Rela-
ns Committee (Mr. Javits).

rhe fact that one is restrained and
im, as the President demonstrated last
ning, does not indicate a lack of
ength or lack of determination. I
nk it does indicate the kind of leader-
ip that is needed in this hour and un-
r these circumstances.

y the Member on the floor.

MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the acting minority
leader is recognized.

ALASKA LANDS ISSUE

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, I would
like to commence discussion, with the
time that is available to me from time
to time, on a serious issue that is before
the Senate that affects only my State,
the Alaska lands issue.

This issue is the most important sub-
ject to come before the Senate affecting
Alaska since the admission of Alaska into
the Union two decades ago.

I intend to discuss the various sub-
issues involved in the legislation that was
reported from the Senate Energy Com-
mittee and to discuss how the Senate
Energy Committee has dealt with each
of these.

It is my hope that Senators will take
time to study these statements. I will try
to make them short, to the point, and
attempt to explain how the Senate
Energy Committee solved the various
problems that came before it during the
consideration of the Alaska lands
legislation.

The first issue I would like to deal with
is the problem of State selections. This
is central to the Alaska lands issue, be-
cause it was the passage of the Alaska
Statehood Act and the passage of the
Alaska Native Land Claims Settlement
Act which provided the additional ra-
tionale for identifying certain Federal
lands which should be set aside as per-
manent units of various national sys-
tems in order that those lands would not
be available to the State of Alaska for
selection or to the Alaska Native com-
munity for selection to satisfy the lands
that were provided in the Alaska Native
Land Claims Settlement Act.

STATE SELECTIONS

In 1958, Congress passed the Alaska
Statehood Act which was the action on
the part of the Federal Government pro-
viding for the admission of Alaska into
our Union. That act provided for a land
grant of some 103.5 million acres to Alas-
ka for an economic base. More than 20
years later, Alaska has received title to
approximately 35 million acres, or about
one-third of its entitlement.

The process of conveyance is long, and
it has been tedious. Much paperwork is
involved, and Alaska can expect the full
conveyance of title under existing law
to take years.

Noting this problem, the Senate Ener-
gy Committee has provided an innova-
tive process of legislative conveyance.
The Senate committee bill provides for
the vesting of title in the State of Alaska
virtually all outstanding State selections
which have not been conveyed for ap-
proximately 30 million acres of State
selections which were recently filed by
the State of Alaska and approved by the
Senate Energy Committee.

CXXV—2138—Part 26
oe eT eS Rees Se ee ee NS ee

tee bill, Alaska would automatically re-
ceive title to nearly 95 percent of its en-
titlement, thus completing the promise
made by Congress over 20 years ago to
our State in the passage of the Alaska
Statehood Act,

The legislative conveyance provision
of the Senate committee bill represents
a major improvement of the current
process of conveyance which has proved
dreadfully slow. I believe that the Sen-
ate Energy Committee has fairly in-
cluded this provision to insure that our
State receives its birthright at the same
time as these questions concerning land
tenure and the setting aside of some
lands to meet national interest are
settled by the Congress.

I yield back the balance of our time.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

EXTRADITION TREATY WITH
FINLAND

EXTRADITION TREATY WITH THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will now
go into executive session and proceed
to the consideration of Executive Calen-
dar Nos. 12 and 13, on which there shall
be not to exceed 20 minutes’ debate, to
be equally divided and controlled by the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CHurcH) and
the Senator from New York (Mr. Javits).

The clerk will state the first resolu-
tion of ratification.

EXTRADITION TREATY WITH FINLAND

The resolution of ratification of Ex-
ecutive I was read as follows:

Resolved (two-thirds of the Senators pres-
ent concurring therein), That the Senate
advise and consent to the ratification of
the Extradition Treaty with Finland, signed
at Helsinki on June 11, 1976. (Executive I,
95th Congress, Ist session.)

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will state the second resolution of
ratification.

EXTRADITION TREATY WITH THE FEDERAL

REPUBLIC OF GERMANY

The resolution of ratification of Exec-
utive A was read as follows:

Resolved (two-thirds of the Senators pres-
ent concurring therein), That the Senate
advise and consent to the ratification of the
Extradition Treaty with the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany, signed at Bonn on June 20,
1978. (Executive A, 96th Congress, Ist ses-
sion.)

ThePRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, the two
treaties the Senate will consider today,
items 12 and 13 on the Executive Calen-
dar, deal with the subject of extradition.
One treaty, updating the old extradition
treaty, is with the Federal Republic of
Germany, and the other is with Finland.

The treaty with Finland was signed in
1976. It replaces the existing extradition
treaty with Finland. The new treaty lists
lee Se

eS eS. A ee oe

At seat ee yovag > osc’ gine . thane Dometic death on

tradited. The list includes the offenses
of aircraft hijacking, narcotics, and
conspiracy to commit a list of 30 of-
fenses.

As I stated yesterday, in regard to the
extradition treaty with Turkey, this ex-
tradition treaty will facilitate the Amer-
ican as well as the Finnish law enforce-
ment efforts.

The extradition treaty with the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany lists 33 of-
fenses. The treaty has the innovation of
requiring the country refusing to extra-
dite to have its own judiciary review the
alleged offense of the individual whose
extradition is being sought and prose-
cute under that country’s statutes. This
provision is regarded by the United
States and the Federal Republic of Ger-
many as an important new element in
their respective efforts to combat acts of
terrorism.

The Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee approved the treaties by a vote
of 10 to 0. Those Senators voting in-
cluded Senators Pett, McGovern,
GLENN, ZoRINSKY, Javits, Percy, HELMS.
Hayakawa, Lucar, and Cuurcn; there
were no negative votes.

Mr. President, I recommend that the
Senate advise and consent to the rati-
fication of these treaties.

Mr. President, inasmuch as the Sena-
tor from New York (Mr. Javits) is not
yet in the Chamber, and because he may
want to make some remarks concerning
the treaty, I suggest the absence of a
quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will call the roll.

The second assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.

Mr. JAVITS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. JAVITS. Mr. President, we have
before us two treaties today: The extra-
dition treaty with Germany and the ex-
tradition treaty with Finland.

The only treaty that has a special fea-
ture is the extradition treaty with Ger-
many, which requires a review by our
own judiciary branch if, for any reason,
we refuse to extradite. It is a very inno-
vative provision. I commend it and both
treaties to the Senate, and hope that
both treaties will be ratified in the vote
today.

Mr. President, I again suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will call the roll.

The second assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, I yield
back whatever time may remain in order
that the Senate may proceed to a vote
on the two pending treaties.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the
senavor irom AlaSKa Vie DACK LE Vhe
allotted to the Senator from New York?

Mr. STEVENS. I yield back that time.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will vote on the two treaties en bloc.

EXTRADITION TREATY WITH FINLAND

The question is on agreeing to the res-
olution of ratification on Executive I—
95th Congress, 1st session, the extradi-
tion treaty with Finland, signed at Hel-
sinki on June 1, 1976.

‘The clerk will call the roll.

The legislative clerk called the roll.

Mr. CRANSTON. I announce that the
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Harry F.
Byrp, Jr.), the Senator from Arizona
(Mr. DeConcrn1) , the Senator from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. Kennepy), the Senator
from Montana (Mr. MELcHER), the Sen-
ator from Wisconsin (Mr. Netson), and
the Senator from Mississippi (Mr. STen-
Nis) are necessarily absent.

I further announce that, if present and
voting, the Senator from Arizona (Mr.
DeConcin1) would vote “yea.”

Mr. STEVENS. I announce that the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. Baker) is
necessarily absent.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber wish-
ing to vote?

The result was announced—yeas 93,
nays 0, as follows:

[Rolicall Vote No. 440 Ex.]

YEAS—93
Armstrong Gravel Nunn
Baucus Hart Packwood
Bayh Hatch Pell
Bellmon Hatfield Percy
Bentsen Hayakawa Pressler
Biden Heflin Proxmire
Boren Heinz Pryor
Boschwitz Helms Randolph
Bradley Hollings Ribicoft
Bumpers Huddleston Riegle
Burdick Humphrey Roth
Byrd, Robert C. Inouye Sarbanes
Cannon Jackson Sasser
Chafee Javits Schmitt
Chiles Jepsen Schweiker
Church Johnston Simpson
Cochran Kassebaum Stafford
Cohen Laxalt Stevens
Cranston Leahy Stevenson
Culver Levin Stewart
Danforth Long Stone
Dole Lugar Talmadge
Domenici McClure Thurmond
Durenberger McGovern Tower
Durkin Magnuson Tsongas
Eagleton Mathias Wallop
Exon Matsunaga Warner
Ford Metzenbaum Weicker
Garn Morgan Williams
Glenn Moynihan Young
Goldwater Muskie Zorinsky
NAYS—O
NOT VOTING—7

Baker DeConcini Nelson

Kennedy Stennis

Byrd,
Harry F.,Jr. Melcher

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Two-
thirds of the Senators present and vot-
ing having voted in the affirmative, the
resolution of ratification is agreed to.

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, I move
to reconsider the vote by which the
resolution of ratification was agreed to.

Mr. JAVITS. I move to lay that motion
on the table.

The motion to lay on the table was
agreed to.
mes? anh eee <n Be A Yon ec wo eo
REPUBLIC OF GERMANY

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ques-
tion is on agreeing to the resolution of
ratification on Executive A—96th Con-
gress, first session, the extradition treaty
with the Federal Republic of Germany,
signed at Bonn on June 20, 1978. Under
the previous order, the yeas and nays
have been ordered. The clerk will call
the roll.

The legislative clerk called the roll.

Mr. CRANSTON. I announce that the
Senator from Virginia (Mr. Harry F.
Byrp, Jr.), the Senator from Arizona
(Mr. DeConcin1), the Senator from
Massachusetts (Mr. Kennepy) , the Sena-
tor from Montana (Mr. MELCHER), the
Senator from Wisconsin (Mr. NELSon),
and the Senator from Mississippi (Mr.
STENNIs) are necessarily absent.

I further announce that, if present
and voting, the Senator from Arizona
(Mr. DeConcrnt) would vote “yea.”

Mr. STEVENS. I announce that the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. BaKER) is
necessarily absent.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
ZorINsKy). Are there any other Sena-
tors in the Chamber wishing to vote?

The result was announced—yeas 93,
nays 0, as follows:

{Rolicall Vote No. 441 Ex.]

YEAS—93
Armstrong Gravel Nunn
Baucus Hart Packwood
Bayh Hatch Pell
Bellmon Hatfield Percy
Bentsen Hayakawa Pressler
Biden Heflin Proxmire
Boren Heinz Pryor
Boschwitz Helms Randolph
Bradley Hollings Ribicoff
Bumpers Huddleston Riegle
Burdick Humphrey Roth
Byrd, Robert C. Inouye Sarbanes
Cannon Jackson Sasser
Chafee Javits Schmitt
Chiles Jepsen Schweiker
Church Johnston Simpson
Cochran Kassebaum Stafford
Cohen Laxalt Stevens
Cranston Leahy Stevenson
Culver Levin wart
Danforth Long Stone
Dole Lugar Talmadge
Domenici McClure Thurmond
Durenberger McGovern Tower
Durkin Magnuson Tso!
Eagleton Mathias Wallop
Exon Matsunaga Warner
Ford Metzenbaum Weicker
Garn Morgan Williams
Glenn Moynihan Young
Goldwater Muskie Zorinsky

NAYS—O

NOT VOTING—7

Baker DeConcini Nelson
Byrd, Kennedy Stennis

Harry F., Jr. Melcher

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Two-
thirds of the Senators present amd vot-
ing having voted in the affirmative, the
resolution of ratification is agreed to.

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, I move
to reconsider the vote by which the res-
olution of ratification was agreed to.

Mr. JAVITS. I move to lay that mo-
tion on the table.

The motion to lay on the table was
agreed to.

Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, I ask
that the President be immediately noti-
BOM UL UIE WCMEAU S AUUIUE 1h SAU IIS
the two treaties.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

ORDER FOR ROLLCALL VOTES ON
TREATIES CHANGED FROM SAT-
URDAY TO FRIDAY

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the votes
that were scheduled on the treaties for
Saturday be moved up to Friday.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

CRUDE OIL WINDFALL PROFIT TAX
ACT OF 1979

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous orcer, the Senate will now
return to legislative session and will re-
sume consideration of the pending busi-
ness, H.R. 3919, which will be stated by
title.

The assistant legislative clerk read as
follows:

A bill (H.R. 3919) to impose a windfall
profit tax on domestic crude oll.

The Senate resumed the consideration
of the bill.

Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, the Sen-
ate is awaiting a decision on the part of
the opponents of the amendment that I
and several colleagues sponsored yester-
day. While we are awaiting their return,
I thought I would take this opportunity
to make a few points about the amend-
ment and state why I think it is in the
best interests of the Senate and the Na-
tion to approve that amendment.

The amendment deals with the in-
crease in the tax rate on tier 2 oil. Tier 2
oil is oil discovered between 1972 and
1979. It is about 4.3 million barrels in
this country, or 51 percent of our domes-
tic production.

The argument surrounds whether an
additional $22 billion to $24 billion in
tax could best be used by developing al-
ternate sources of energy or could best
be used by the oil industry in increasing
production in tier 2.

Mr. President, I suggest that we reach
a point of diminishing marginal returns
that borders on the misallocation of re-
sources if we think that that $24 billion
is best spent trying to increase the pro-
duction capacity of tier 2 oil, because
clearly there is a much stronger produc-
tion response in other forms of energy.
Even within the context of the debate
on the windfall profit tax, I think that
one of the points the Finance Com-
mittee focused on—as I know a number
of other independent studies focused on,
such as the Congressional Budget Of-
fice—was this: Where can you give in-
centives, where incentives will produce
additional oil?

We felt—and the Congressional Budget
Office and any number of people who tes-
tified before our committee felt—that the
Sl SESVUMSS WUUIM UVES 42) Lit Ww som
coveries and tertiary oil.

Yet, the opposition to this amendment
is made in the name of increased pro-
duction. I do not think that the oppo-
nents of the amendment or any others
have demonstrated how or why produc-
tion will decline if we increase to 75
percent or by how much that decline will
take place.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Will the Senator
yield?

Mr. BRADLEY. I yield.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Is it not the case
that these oil wells are producing oil
now?

Mr. BRADLEY. It is indeed the case.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. And presumably at
a profit; and that the price at which this
oil now being produced will more than
double to these producers in the next
3 years. Is that approximately the case?

Mr. BRADLEY. It is true that over the
next few years, depending on the world’s
price of oil, their revenues will increase
greatly.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. So would they have
any inclination to decrease production if
they are going to get even more money
than they are now getting, when they are
already producing?

Mr. BRADLEY. The Senator is correct
to point out that under the windfall
profits tax that is before the Senate, an
additional $300 billion in revenues would
accrue to the oil industry. Last year, the
total of exploration and development was
about $15 billion. So, annualized over a
year, there would be sufficiently larger
quantities of revenues for increased de-
velopment and exploration.

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield?

Mr. BRADLEY. I yield.

Mr. STEVENS. I wonder whether the
Senator is familiar with the impact of
his amendment on the construction of
the Alaskan gas pipeline. Those are re-
sources already discovered, not trans-
ported. They have been discovered, ready
for transportation since at least 1975.
They were discovered in 1968—10 per-
cent of the Nation’s gas reserves.

The Government, this administration,
asked the industry that has developed
the Alaskan North Slope to participate
in the equity and debt financing of the
construction of the Alaskan natural gas
Pipeline. The industry just committed
itself to $4 billion.

This amendment goes from 60 percent
to 75 percent. We are checking this now
with the Congressional Budget Office. It
is my understanding that the impact of
going from 60 percent to 75 percent is in
the range of $10 billion to $15 billion.

Strangely enough, that is the cost of
the gas pipeline at the current esti-
mates—about $15 billion.

Why should the Senator's amendment
take from the revenues from Prudhoe
Bay—vwe are talking about existing pro-
duction of tier 2 oil—that cash flow, after
normal corporate taxes? These are after-
ae Se See ee Se, Ne Ee Ore ee. ee a

ap SS ee Soe eee

MAA UVUMEALS WiilUsd SAUL SALY WUE WO Ai
vested in facilities necessary for the
transportation, production, and develop-
ment of oil or gas. That is the first por-
tion of Prudhoe Bay, incidentally. I am
not even dealing with the question of
how much it will cost to fully develop
Prudhoe Bay.

Why should the Senator take the
money away from the companies which
have agreed to put their after-tax dollars
into a gas pipeline and put the money
into the Treasury, and why should we
debate next year whether we will put it
into the natural gas pipeline?

Why does the Senator want to take
that money and put it into the Treasury
with all the handling cost coming
through Washington? Why should they
not be permitted to leave that money
flowing through the industrial base of
the country in developing the transpor-
tation facilities for our gas?

The Senator must be aware of the
impact of this on Prudhoe Bay.

Mr. BRADLEY. I think the Senator is
correct to point out that his State of
Alaska does have a number of oil wells
that do fall into the two tier category
and that these oil wells will indeed be
taxed. Of the total revenues of about $22
billion to $24 billion that will be raised
by this, about $5 billion of that will be
Alaska oil.

I am not at all certain that there are
not a great number of projects in this
country that merit consideration for fi-
nancing by private sector companies.
That might indeed result in greater
energy production. It is in context of
that thought that we want to increase
the tax on tier 2 oil so as to obtain the
revenues that can be used to stimulate
the growth of energy production in this
country as a whole in sources of energy
much more than simply oil and gas.

If we take the narrow approach on the
particular amendment, we have to deal
with what is the production decrease as
@ result of increasing the tax from 60
to 75 percent. I really wish to see some-
one come up with that figure. It is quite
reasonable, I suppose, to argue that if
you had more money to spend, be you an
oil company or a citizen, you would spend
it on a number of activities.

Mr. STEVENS. That is not really the
question. The question is, What is the role
of the producers of Alaskan oil from the
North Slope? The Federal Government,
for the first time in history, asked those
oil producers to participate in after-tax
dollars to help finance the construction
of a gas pipeline and the commitments
were made to $4 billion.

This amendment will take away from
those producers at least $4 billion. I
think it is in excess of $10 billion, but
at least $4 billion. Why, after having re-
sponded to this need, having made a
unique commitment—the first time in
history it has been done—should this
Senate approve an amendment which
will take away from them the ability to
do what the Government asked them to
do? Incidentally, I supported the syn-
| ad,
he
D-
r-
m
of
op

MAES SUCIS PIUBI AM. 221A Will LOU CO IT)
State any good.

We can produce more oil between nov
and the time the first synthetic fuel pro:
gram will come on line than the syn.
thetic fuel program will produce betweer
now and the end of the century. We lit-
erally can produce more oil in the imme.
diate near future than the total progran
that $20 billion will produce. Yet, thi:
amendment will not leave in Alaska the
revenues from Prudhoe Bay to furthe:
develop that potential that is alread;
discovered. We are not talking abou
speculative resources. The existence o
9 to 10 billion barrels of oil at Prud-
hoe Bay is not disputed by anyone. Th¢
existence of 26 trillion cubic feet of ga.
is not disputed by anyone.

The question is, Should it be made
available to this Nation as we are los:
ing Iran, as the foreign sources of ow
oil become less dependent? Why no’
build the facilities? Why should we fac
a tax increase? Sixty percent is con:
fiscatory; 75 percent is suicide for thi:
Nation. I, for one, hope that meeting goes
on. We are not talking about filibuster:
yet, but some people better get some
reasoning here about the level of thi:
taxation or there is going to be a fili-
buster, because I am not going to sta}
in the Senate and witness the demise o!
the oil industry in my State because o:
a@ confiscatory policy because someone
wants to turn to another form of energy
We have the energy there. We have
proven it is there. And there is no rea-
son for this tax.

There are no independents doing busi-
ness in Alaska. There are no independ-
ents in Alaska. Those are all majors. As
a result of the Bentsen amendment, in-
dependents were eliminated. So this be-
comes an anti-Alaska tax. The bulk of
this is going to fall on production of
Alaska Prudhoe Bay oil, the tier 2 oil
that is currently under production at the
rate of about 1.2 million barrels a day

Who in his right mind is going to
further invest in development of Alaska
oil resources? And we can also prove that
the potential is there. Thirteen of the
fifteen sedimentary basins never have
been explored. Sixty percent of all gaso-
line the Senator uses between now and
the end of his life will come from Alaska.

Yet this tax is going to wipe out the
Possibility of a cash flow back from the
revenues from Prudhoe Bay into the ful.
development of our potential. I think it
is high time the Senate realizes we are
not going to take this lightly. I person-
ally am not going to take it lightly. Sixty
percent still leaves in terms of projection
at least enough gas flow to keep commit-
ments made for the development sched-
ules. It is going to take some time to get
those schedules in here and to get the
runs of the computers to tell us what the
impact of 70 percent is.

As I said, our guesstimate is in excess
of $10 billion in terms of gas flow. The
difference between 60 and 75 percent in
terms of the history of this bill is what
its impact will be on Alaska’s North Slope
production. We are talking only about
FSAUMMLIVT Dey PAV, Vaoeoweo ee Y
duction, the tier 2 level, that flow to the
Treasury as opposed to the flow back into
the ground to develop that reservoir and
all the transportation facilities necessary.

I think that is a bad national policy.
[ do not think the country wants to see
it. I think the country should become
alarmed, particularly in view of Iran and
particularly in view of the instability of
our supplies abroad and the announced
curtailment now of production in other
countries.

I tell my friend I hope that he will
think seriously about what he is doing.
If he wants to talk about plow backs I
am willing to talk about plow backs. I put
that in that amendment yesterday. Some
way to get a credit for those people who
actually put money back in these facili-
ties is necessary. And then the 75 per-
cent level would not be exorbitant in my
opinion, if the Senator takes into ac-
count a reasonable level of plow backs
but the Senator is not. He has no credit
against this. This is a tax, an excise tax.
It has nothing to do with costs. It has
nothing at all to do with the cash flow
needs to develop their reservoir up there.

I do not know of any nation in the
world which would do this. I do not know
of any business in the world, in this
country even, that we would deny the
first dollars that it earns to help expand
the business to make it a more profitable
economical production effort.

I really hope that the sponsors of this
amendment take a good look at this.
I realize we are not going to vote on
this until we get the computer runs and
until we know what it means in terms
of the reduction of gas flow and the re-
quired dollars to develop that vast area
that we now know as Prudhoe Bay.

It is an interesting thing to me that
the Carter administration has just an-
nounced, the leasing of the Beaufort Sea,
much farther out than we want to see it
leased, incidentally. The cash flow de-
mands on that are $10 billion. Where
are they going to come from?

Mr. BRADLEY. The $10 billion the
Senator estimates might come from the
oil companies with a 60-percent tax in-
stead of a 75-percent tax. How much of
that does he think would be reinvested
in increased exploration and develop-
ment?

Mr. STEVENS. At the present levels,
all of it. They are borrowing money to
keep up their schedule now.

Mr. BRADLEY. How much have they
invested year by year since 1973?

Mr. STEVENS. We are looking for
that and I am glad to get that schedule.
That is one of the things we need. Those
are some of the things the Senator and
other people are demanding of us, and
it is going to take some time to get it.
We explored it. I flew out to Los Angeles
and discussed it with the producers of
Alaska oil last week, and they said they
could live with the Senate bill at 60 per-
cent so we decided not to do anything
about it at that level. But now that it is

ox

aaenmwnmronreatr s2027mMmn <

-—toen pan

a
ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee eee
ent it is going to have a tremendous
mpact. Incidentally, they could live with
t in this sense: their borrowing capacity
lus their cash flow and after tax dol-
ars would enable them to meet the cur-
ent schedule for the development and
sroduction of the North Slope resources.

Mr. BRADLEY. Can the Senator fur-
her clarify for the Recorp what is the
ywnership of the gas pipeline companies
n Alaska?

Mr. STEVENS. We authorized that by
an act of Congress, the Alaskan Gas
[Transportation Pipeline. It is a pipeline
which will go through Alaska, split into
;wo legs, as a separate company that is
privately owned, goes through Canada,
and it is seeking financing. As I said, the
Department of Energy and the President
have demanded that the producers of
the oil participate in the financing of
the gas pipeline with after-tax dollars.

When I first came to the Senate in
Oklahoma, Texas, and Louisiana they
were before-tax dollars due to the deple-
tion allowance. Alaska is the first oil
province in the United States that has
ever been developed with after-tax dol-
lars, and you want to tax 75 percent of
the after-tax dollars away from the pro-
ducers of the first major oil field in
Alaska. Just think of that in terms of
the history of this country. There never
would have been a Louisiana, a Texas,
or Oklahoma production at the level we
know it at the price we know it with an
after-tax dollar production concept, and
yet that is what we are facing.

People say “Why are your costs so
high?” They are so high because we are
not using before-tax dollars, before de-
preciable assets. We cannot do it be-
cause there is no longer a depletion al-
lowance. This is confiscatory to go to 75
percent.

Mr. CHAFEE. Mr. President, I wonder
if the Senator will answer a couple of
questions.

Mr. BRADLEY. I would be pleased to
yield to my colleague.

Mr. CHAFEE. I would like to ask the
Senator from Alaska if I am correct in
saying that in January 1979 the world
price of oil was $13 a barrel. I know it
was. It is a rhetorical question.

Mr. STEVENS. If the Senator wants
to state some facts and ask some ques-
tions—I will tell you what the price of
oil was in my State when I came down
here. It was $3 a barrel in 1968, and we
had an oil import program, and we were
trying to keep out foreign oil that was
coming in at $1.75 a barrel.

Congress, in its wisdom, decided to
destroy the whole concept of the oil in-
dustry and did away with the depletion
allowance, did away with the oil import
program, did away with a whole concept
that led to the production of oil and gas
and energy at the lowest cost per unit in
the history of man. Now we face this
problem of what to do about the future.

I will be glad to tell you whatever you
want to know about Alaskan oil. Ask me
that. Do not ask me about the world

Act son sett Ob oF; wD
PEALE MEU GUOe 2 UU 210 UPL Wildl FE WUE
as much as I do with Alaska.

Mr. CHAFEE. In January Alaskan oil
was selling in the United States for $6.50
a barrel in the lower 48.

Mr. STEVENS. No, no, it was not. Make
sure of your facts. Alaskan oil was selling
at the wellhead for $6 and some odd
cents.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is right.

Mr. STEVENS. You add to that the
transportation to the Alaska pipeline and
then its storage in Valdez, and then its
transfer to the supertankers to take it
down right off Panama where it was then
transferred into vessels that could go
through the Panama Canal, and after it
went through the Panama Canal was
then transferred back to a tanker, was
taken over to the Virgin Islands and re-
fined, and was brought into the East
Coast and sold at a price in excess of
what we are buying foreign oil because
of the cost of transportation, handling
of that oil after it left Alaska. It was not
selling in the United States, the South 48,
for $6; it was selling at that price at
Prudhoe Bay at $6 and some odd cents.
If you cost this down it is equivalent to
Saudi oil. Incidentally, our oil is equiva-
lent to Saudi oil. You can run it through
the same refineries and transfer it back
and forth, as is done, by the way, with
Iranian oil and Saudi oil down at the
Virgin Islands. But it was never sold in
the United States for less than the mar-
ket price, the world market price.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is right. What I
should have said was the producers were
receiving $13 a barrel, which was then
the world price, and from that they had
to deduct as an expense of $7.50 for
transportation. In other words, their net
was $6.50 a barrel.

Mr. STEVENS. No, the wellhead price.
Their net was not because we own that
oil, the State of Alaska owns that oil. We
take one-eighth of it as a royalty, and
then we take a portion of it, if my mem-
ory is correct, which is about, it amounts
to where the State takes some 20 percent
of the value of that before it is through
in terms of severance taxes in order to
support the infrastructure that is neces-
sary to maintain the oil industry.

So the net to the industry was some-
where around, assuming your price is
correct, somewhere around $5 a barrel.

Mr. CHAFEE. If I could continue, Mr.
President. I said that the world price was
$13, the transportation costs were $7.50,
leaving a net of—I said $6.50, it should
be $5.50.

Under this bill that we have here, what
Alaska gets at the well head, what the
producers get at the well head in Alaska,
is the world price now of $23.

Mr. STEVENS. They have never got-
ten the world price at the wellhead, and
they never will.

Mr. CHAFEE. Just a minute, less the
$7.50, the transportation cost, and so the
net to the producers is $15.50 a barrel.

Mr. STEVENS. That is if you assume
the refiners in the Virgin Island and
California are going to pay more for
Alaskan oil than they will for any oi
that is available. That is not so. That
is the trouble about these projections
you are making. You are assuming some-
one is going to pay at the wellhead at
Alaska the same price they pay for Long
Beach, production at Long Beach.

Incidentally, I see the managers of
the bill are back. I would be happy to
yield the floor. I hope the Senator from
Rhode Island will allow me to continue
this at a later time. I have an appoint-
ment in my roll as the acting minority
leader that I cannot but go to.

Mr. CHAFEE. I am ready to move to
@ vote.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Vote? Did anyone
say vote?

Mr. STEVENS. In a few days.

(Laughter.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Did I hear vote? Did
the Senator from Alaska——

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, what is the
pending business or is there any busi-
ness?

Mr. MOYNIHAN. The pending busi-
ness is that we have a vote coming up
on the amendment of Senator BrapLey.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
Heriin). The pending business is an
amendment of the Senator from New
Jersey to an amendment of the Senator
from New Jersey.

Mr. DOLE. The same business as
yesterday.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. It is
amendment 714 to amendment 713.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. If the Senator from
Kansas will yield, I would like to say
that I am prepared to vote at this time.

Mr. DOLE. But you are prepared to
vote wrong, so we are not prepared to
vote. [Laughter.] For the interest of
those who would like to go to lunch or
dinner, we have had a meeting of about
10 or 12 Senators who have an interest
in more production and lower taxes, and
we have concluded phase 1 of that meet-
ing. We hope to be having discussions in
the next few minutes with a distin-
guished Senator from New Jersey, the
distinguished Senator from New York,
and the distinguished Senator from
Rhode Island in hopes that we can re-
solve any problem that exists.

I do not know precisely when that will
happen. I think the distinguished Sena-
tor from Colorado is on his way to the
floor. He wanted to make a statement on
the amendment that is pending, and
perhaps during that period of time we
could discuss a number of things with
the Senators who have an interest.

I noticed this morning in the Wall
Street Journal that there was a filibus-
ter in progress. I did not know that a
$20 billion amendment became a filibus-
ter after only 2 hours of discussion. But
since it has already been labeled a fili-
buster by the press, it seems to me we
do not lose a great deal in making it a
filibuster. We would not want to disap-
point anyone.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, will
the Senator yield? Does the Senator
seriously think his long-term interests
are served by adding credibility to the
Se See ey > See

Sere ee er ee Se ee

=e Peewee

eee Cae eee

oat

press, I mean not His own but that of his
party, that side of the aisle?

Mr. DOLE. Yes. I am not certain what
our long-term interests are on this side
of the aisle, but——

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Surely rashness in
these decisions is not in order from an
acting minority leader.

Mr. DOLE. I do not know where our
leader is. I think he is in some other
place where I ought to be, come to think
of it. But in any event I will say to my
friend——

Mr. MOYNIHAN. If the Senator wishes
to go away, we could have this vote and
he could go out and explain it to his great
advantage.

Mr. DOLE. I was thinking about leav-
ing this afternoon and then coming back
tomorrow and then picking up where we
left off. But if we are back to the same
question of who is right, whether the
Senator from Rhode Island, the Senator
from New Jersey and others may be cor-
rect, some of us believe we may be over-
taxing the industry.

I would guess that most of the Ameri-
can people would like nothing better
than to just tax the oil industry, maybe
not out of existence but to make certain
that they did not make any profit at all.
I suspect that the majority of Americans
are not convinced that we have an oil
problem, or a gas problem, but they do
believe we have a problem with the oil
industry. The industry itself is not known
for its effective public relations, and
somehow with the large profits appear-
ing, there is this desire to impose a
rather substantial tax.

We understand that there will be a
lot of revenue raised. When this bill goes
to conference, I would assume the final
result will be somewhere between what
the House would like to have and what
the Senate would finally like to have. So
maybe in the final analysis we are not
talking about much of a difference.

But there is some indication that the
same Senators who want to increase the
tax to 75 percent on tier 2 also want a
minimum tax of 20 percent on all that we
exempted in the committee. I think that
is a matter we want to discuss with those
who prevailed, at least on a temporary
basis, on the 75-percent tax. If we back
away and say “All right, let us let the
75-percent tax on tier 2 be adopted,”
then will the next amendment be to put
a 20- or 30-percent tax on newly discov-
ered oil, the so-called independent ex-
emption, or heavy oil or other oil that
is difficult to find?

We are just looking for information. I
understand that the amendment was of-
fered because of the independent exemp-
tion. Well, then, we will recoup all the
money we have lost on the independent
exemption plus $12 billion more. If there
were some assurance from those Sena-
tors who advocate the 75-percent tax on
tier 2 that they do not intend, today, to-
morrow, the next day, or any time before
final passage to offer another tax of
20 percent on everything else, that would
certainly make our decision much easier.
I do not know whether the Senator from
at
le

New x*Ork has any inside intormation
on that point.

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, may
I say to the Senator from Kansas that
that seems to me to be an altogether rea-
sonable and fair-minded request, and I
think we should counsel with one another
on this matter.

Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield?

Mr. DOLE. I am happy to yield to the
Senator from New Jersey.

Mr. BRADLEY. As the Senator from
Kansas knows, it is evry difficult to
speak for all Senators, whatever the
legislation, on any particular amend-
ment. It is a little bit—I hesitate to bring
in an allusion to the SALT treaty, but
it is a little bit like opening up one can
of worms leading to the opening up of
other cans.

If we give you assurances on particular
measures, perhaps you might consider
equal assurances on your side. I mean
when the independent exemption passed,
we did not come back to the Senate and
say, “Well, we are going to filibuster this
until you reduce it from 1,000 to 500 or
300.” That is, I think, the direction that
the Senator from Kansas is heading in,
and I personally would be a little leery
of stating anything on the record about
what any Member of this body would do.
I am sure the Senator from Kansas is
quite aware that one cannot control all
Senators in this body, and one does not
know what other Senators will do.

Mr. DOLE. I agree with the Senator's
last statement. I would just suggest in
the meantime that we discuss this more
fully. We have a number of Senators
who would like to discuss it extensively.

I am not suggesting that any Senator
make any statement about what he pro-
poses to do, because certainly we all want
to keep our options open. We all have, I
think, the same ultimate interest, and
that is to try to solve the energy prob-
lems America has, and at the same time
figure out some tax that does not take
away the incentive and still leaves us
money for low-income assistance, mass
transit, and conservation credits.

I cannot speak for the 39 Senators who
voted to table the amendment of the
Senator from New Jersey and the Sena-
tor from Rhode Island, but I do believe
that many of those Senators would prob-
ably be willing to accept the amendment
if there were some indication of what
else to expect. I am told that the Sena-
tors who want to raise the tax to 75
percent on tier 2 are the same Senators
who want to impose a minimum tax on
all the oil that has been exempted either
in committee or on the Senate floor.
All these categories of oil were exempted
because we thought it was necessary tc
give the industry some incentive.

It is a very important matter we are
dealing with. Until we can have some, I
do not say assurance, but some loose
understanding, then I think it is impor-
tant for us who want to solve the prob-
lems of production to continue to dis-
cuss these matters.
iam prepared to yield to the senator
from Colorado—

Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, before
the Senator yields to the Senator from
Colorado, will he yield to me for a re-
sponse?

Mr. DOLE. Yes.

Mr. BRADLEY. If the Senator desires
fo continue the debate, that is certainly
pen to him to do. I think one does have
to consider that the longer this debate
is, the more the question will be raised
over what is at issue against what is to
pe gained by proceeding.

The information, if the Senator is cor-
rect, that it might be significantly less
likely than it appears, I think merits
some consideration before the decision
is taken, if you are going to proceed
with a full out, extended debate, in which
we could be here for a long time.

Mr. DOLE. I agree with that. I do not
know anything about a filibuster. I have
never really been involved in one. We had
a little discussion for 7 weeks a few years
ago that I was involved in, but it really
never got into a filibuster. That is why
[ do not understand why, after just 2
hours, somebody labels this a talkathon.
This is a $20 billion amendment; $10
billion an hour does not seem to be un-
reasonable. A few weeks ago we spent
days talking about millions of dollars.

We are talking about not only the dol-
lars, but the consumers in this country
having enough oil and gas to fill their
needs, whether for their automobiles,
their furnaces, or whatever.

So it is certainly an important matter
we are discussing. I do not want any Sen-
ators to feel that they are involved in an
extended debate, because we are not. We
are involved in a discussion right now
that could end any minute, or maybe will
not end any minute.

Does the Senator from Rhode Island
ask me to yield?

Mr. CHAFEE. Mr. President, un-
fortunately my attention was diverted
for a moment, but do I understand the
Senator to say that if there were no
costly amendments or add-ons, he would
not be be opposed to the so-called 75
percent? Am I correct in that, or am I
incorrect?

Mr. DOLE. I think I am speaking for
a number of the Senators who had a
meeting in S. 206. We are only concerned
that if we back away and say, “Let us
take the 75 percent”—we do not want to
stand on the floor for 4 or 5 days or
longer. If in fact you have a substan-
tial margin you are going to prevail in
the final analysis, and we might be will-
ing to make some alterations. We might
lower it to 70 percent, or there are other
things that could be done. We discussed
a whole range of possibilities. But some
are concerned about trying to eliminate
the so-called phaseout, trying to bring
about a minimum tax on newly dis-
covered oil, or the independent exemp-
tion, or heavy oil, or all the other oil
that has been exempted. I do not know
whether the Senator from Rhode Island
has a position on that or not.

Mr. CHAFEE. The difficulty is that I
do not know who can speak for the
others on the floor, or the rest of the

PI

Ses semeezrpep-sson az2oneceg

-a

sa2¢050%4 BMA A2oeURre ea

Lol
senate. 1 personally would not support
. substantial minimum tax on new oil.

I know that there are some other
imendments particularly dealing with
he State-owned oil and there is one, as
you mentioned, on the phaseout. I do not
juite know where that stands.

Who can guarantee the way those are
going to come out? I do not know who is
round that can strike the deal.

Mr. DOLE. I understand that. I only
‘aise it because I think there will be an
fort to at least contact the principal
sponsors of the so-called minimum tax.
We are certainly aware of the Danforth
oroposal that was raised in the commit-
ee as far as States are concerned. So
shat would not come as any surprise.
That should be dealt with in the normal
sourse of debate. I understand that next
Monday the Senator from Missouri
would like to bring up his amendment.

So I am prepared to yield the floor.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Mr. President, the
Senator from Colorado has arrived late
yn the scene because, along with a num-
er of the other Members, I have been
rying to reorganize the Chrysler Corp.
[ think some who have been here on the
loor discussing this for some time may
10t appreciate the extent to which other
Members of the Senate, having been pre-
yccupied with activities all over Capitol
Hill—and important activities, at that—
are genuinely out of tune and out of
ouch with the direction of the debate.

Ihave a few thoughts that I would like
0 explore. Before I do, I want to be sure
chat I have properly in focus the amend-
nent that we are considering.

As I understand it, the pending Brad-
ley-Chafee amendment increases the tax
on tier 2 oil from 60 to 75 percent.

I wonder if I could have the attention
of the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BRADLEY) to see if he can help me get this
into perspective.

I see the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. CHAFEE) is prepared to respond.

Mr. CHAFEE. Yes, the Senator is cor-
rect. There was an amendment presented
that put it at 80 percent and then, fol-
lowed on top of that, an amendment
that put it to 75 percent. So the amend-
ment we are considering and, indeed, the
serious amendment before us is the 75
percent of upper tier oil. The Senator is
correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. It is my under-
standing that this is in the nature of an
excise tax. In other words, this is simply
a tax that is applied to the revenue which
is realized on tier 2 oil above the base
price and is unrelated to the profits of
the producers and, in fact, is imposed
whether there are profits or not?

Mr. CHAFEE. The Senator is correct.
There is a net income limitation, which
[ do not think we need to go into now.
But, in essence, what the Senator is say-
ing is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I am not familiar
with the net income limitation. I am
sure the members of the Finance Com-
mittee who are primarily responsible for
the development of this bill are familiar
with that.

But I will ask the Senator: Is that a
provision which says that the tax would
not be imposed on a@ corporation that was
losing money?

Mr. CHAFEE. That gets very compli-
cated. Basically what the Senator is say-
ing is you cannot tax 100 percent of what.
they are making. It cannot work out
that way.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I see. I think the
only other question I need to ask to be
sure that I understand the impact of this
is: Does this limitation apply on a cor-
poration-by-corporation basis, or does it
apply to a particular tier of oil within a
corporation, or does it apply to a partic-
ular oil field within that tier within the
corporation?

Really, what I am asking is: Is it con-
ceivable, in a worst case example, that
they might be actually paying 75 percent
of the incremental above the base price
even though they were losing money on
the production of oil from a certain field?
Or is that simply an impossibility?

Mr. CHAFEE. Is the Senator talking
now about the tax or the net income
limitation that we previously discussed?

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I am really talk-
ing about the tax. I would like to get that
out in the simplest way, rather than in
a technical way. I would defer to the
Senator on what the best way to proceed
is.
Let me step back a moment and relate
it to an example that is more within the
everyday experience of the Senator from
Colorado. What we have here is, basic-
ally, a sales tax. In the ordinary parlance,
a sales tax is paid even if the corporation
or the individual who is paying it is losing
money. What I was trying to explore
with the Senator is whether or not, in
this case, the so-called windfall profit
tax—which is truly an excise tax, as I
understand it—would be applied even in
a circumstance where the producer was
losing money. Or has that been precluded
by other provisions of the bill?

Mr. CHAFEE. When the Senator says,
“the producer,” does he mean a producer
from a whole variety of fields, newly dis-
covered oil, upper tier, lower tier, his
total corporate profit picture?

Mr. ARMSTRONG. That was precisely
my question: Whether or not the earned
income limitation applied companywide
or to all the tier 2 oil produced within a
company, or to tier 2 oil produced within
@ particular field. What I was trying to
determine was whether or not there
might ever arise an instance where a
producer would actually be producing oil
and paying this 75 percent tax in a field
where he was, in fact, losing money.

Mr. CHAFEE. It is on a property-by-
property basis. So you apply it only to
the profitable section of his production.
You could have the example in which an
oil corporation is involved in a whole host
of activities, upper tier, lower tier, new
oil. Under that example—let us say all
the oil from this field is tier 2 oil—he
would be paying a windfall profit tax on
that tier 2 section if it was profitable.

It could turn out that the corporation
could own oil that was tier 1 or other
areas where he might be losing money.
But the tax would only apply, in this
particular area, in this profitable tier 2
situation.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Wel, perhaps i
have not clearly stated my question. Let
us take precisely the example that the
Senator has outlined. My question is: Are
there circumstances in which a producer
would pay a windfall profit tax on this
tier 2 oil in question, even though, with-
in the particular field in question, he was
losing money?

Mr. CHAFEE. No.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. In no event can
this tax contribute to a loss in a par-
ticular field?

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. In other words,
there is a provision in the bill that miti-
gates the tax if there is a loss on the field;
if the drilling expenses, let us say, in the
field exceed the production?

Mr, CHAFEE. The Senator is correct.
That is what we call the 90-percent net
income limitation.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. And that is applied
on a field-by-field basis, rather than
companywide?

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I appreciate that
explanation.

I would like to now be sure I under-
stand exactly how the windfall profit tax
relates to the corporate income taxes.
Again, starting with the understanding
that it is merely an excise tax, do I un-
derstand that from the standpoint of a
producer, individual producer or corpora-
tion, that that simply is a cost of doing
business and is deductible in the same
way from the competition of corporate
income tax that any other business ex-
pense would be deductible?

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. How does that also
interface with the severance tax of an
individual State? In my State, for ex-
ample—I guess all producer States im-
pose a severance tax. Is a severance tax
on top of or in addition to this windfall
excise tax?

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct. There
would be a deduction for the severance
tax.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. There would be a
deduction for the severance tax?

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. With reference to
the incremental dollar value of produc-
tion for this tier 2 oil, the tax would be
applied under the pending amendment at
the rate of 75 percent above the base
price?

Mr. CHAFEE. That is right.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. There would be a
deduction first for the severance tax. I
am trying to think through how that
would work. Let us suppose the severance
tax was 12.5 percent.

Mr. CHAFEE. I wonder if we could take
an illustration. Would that be helpful?

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I think it would
be helpful.

Mr. CHAFEE. Let us say the base price
is $13, and the selling price is $30. Is the
Senator with me?

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Yes.

Mr. CHAFEE. You take the selling
price and deduct the base price. So we
are now down to $17; $13 from $30 is $17.
You then deduct from that the severance
taxes, State taxes, whatever they are.
Say they amount to $0. inat gets you
down to $14. Then your windfall tax ap-
plies to that.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. In other words,
the tax is applied to the remaining $14
in the example the Senator has sug-
gested. That would be a tax of 75 per-
cent under the pending amendment.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is right.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. That would be
something like $10 or $11.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. That would leave
something like $3 or $3.50 out of the
original windfall amount.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Suppose that there
were no other expenses associated with
that. That $3 or $3.50 would then be
subject to Federal and State corporate
income tax, assuming there were no
other expenses and that that was totally
profit. I understand there might be other
intervening expenses that would reduce
the profit. It might well be that half or
two-thirds of that would be wiped out
by other expenses. But assuming that all
of that remaining $3 or $3.50 were prof-
it, then would the ordinary personal in-
come tax rate apply to it?

Mr. CHAFEE. The individual or cor-
porate rate, yes.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. In the case of cor-
Porations, those that make above the
surtaxable amount, which is, I guess, true
for most corporations of any size, the
Federal corporate income tax rate is 48
percent, more or less.

Mr. CHAFEE. Forty-six percent.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I had forgotten for
@ moment that we did reduce that from
48 percent to 46 percent. Then on what
was left the State could also levy an in-
come tax, or I guess it is really the other
way around, that the State levies first
and the Federal Government permits
that as a deduction. If that were 5 or 6
percent, the net effect of that would be
3 percent.

Mr. CHAFEE. Let us not be counting
things several times. Why not stick just
with the corporate rate, the Federal rate.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. But it would be
subject to a State tax on income in a
State where such an income tax was
levied.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. In our State, for
example, that would be 8 percent for the
individual.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. So if I have fol-
lowed this correctly, out of the original
$30 a barrel selling price, after we de-
duct the royalty payments that might
apply, after we deduct the tax on the
windfall increase between $13 and $30,
the actual amount that might come down
to the net profit, and I say might come
down to the net profit, of a producer,
individual or corporation, would be per-
haps as low as $1 or $1.50 of that in-
crease between $13 and $30.

Mr. CHAFEE. That might be, but you
can deduct your intangible drilling ex-
penses. Those are factors that must be
taken into consideration.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. This, I believe,
leads me to the concern with the amend-
ment and, indeed, with an underlying
bl

Tae ae ee 2e eS aoe eee > tee = £

ee es

ed allinn Te’ Wind ela 2

nf thes

was

concern in the bill, but since we are 100K-
ing carefully at the Senator’s amend-
ment, perhaps it would be well to focus
on that. It is not clear to me that that is
an attractive business opportunity. Iam
disposed to believe that since that $1 or
$1.50 profit that might remain is, after
all, a speculative profit and would be
subject to normal business risks in any
case, if that is the maximum that could
be obtained from tier 2 oil, it does not
foster a great deal of increase or it does
not offer a great incentive for increasing
the production of oil from this source.

Am I mistaken about that?

Mr. CHAFEE. I think it is very im-
portant to bear in mind that unlike the
House bill, the bill that has come from
the Senate Finance Committee, which
was supported by a vote of 19 to 1, pro-
vides that newly discovered oil is not
subject to the windfall profit tax at all.

One of the Senator’s theses was that
there was not much incentive. There is
every kind of incentive for the discovery
of new oil under this legislation.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Of course, in this
particular case we are not talking about
new oil. We are talking about tier 2 oil.

Mr. CHAFEE. That is right. But I be-
lieve the point the Senator was making
was that there were not many incentives.
I think the Senator has to remember we
are talking about old oil. Tier 2 is old
oil. That is oil that has already been dis-
covered, which is flowing profitably at
$13 a barrel.

It is also important to bear in mind
that the $13 base price is not static for-
ever. The $13 base price is increased by
inflation, so the $13 rolls up to $14 or
$15, or whatever it might be, based on
whatever the inflation rate is. So it is
oil that is being produced at a profit at
the current time. If you wish to drill
for new oil within a field then you get the
intangible drilling expenses, and so
forth. If you go out and discover brand
new oil then, of course, you are not sub-
ject to the windfall profit tax whatso-
ever.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I think the Sen-
ator has underscored the point which I
was about to make, that there are sub-
stantial incentives as the bill presently
stands for the discovery and production
of new oil; that relative to increasing
the production from tier 2 oil, there is
the incentive for the investment of cap-
ital, scientific know-how, management
ability, proportionate to the risks and
potential return. Really, what we are
saying is let us put our emphasis on dis-
covering new oil rather than increasing
production from these existing fields.

Mr. CHAFEE. I do not think that is
quite fair to say because we have also
provided in this legislation what we call
incremental tertiary. In other words, the
heavy expenses one undergoes to get the
most out of an existing well that seems
to have exhausted itself, yet if you make
added efforts you will get more. Anything
you get from those fields, from that
effort, is not subject at all to windfall
profit tax.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Let us not get into
tertiary for a moment. I am very much
interested in tertiary production. As a
matter of fact, I happen to think that
tertiary production methods offer an
enormously interesting opportunity for
the future. I want to go back to increas-
ing tier 2 production from conventional
methods, not the exotic methods under
tertiary recovery.

It appears to me that if a producer,
whether a large oil company or an inde-
pendent, has a choice between making
increased investments in an existing field
regulated under tier 2 pricing and with
the amendment as suggested by the Sen-
ator from Rhode Island, if he has a
choice between investing in more tier 2
production or going into an entirely new
field, that the incentive is clearly greater,
or at least there is a presumption in
favor of new oil rather than old oil, just
as the Senator himself said a moment

ago.

In fact, the Senator will remember
when I raised the concern about incen-
tives, the Senator’s response was that
there are plenty of incentives in this
bill; after all, new oil is completely free
of this windfall tax. That is exactly my
point. We are building in, with this very
heavy tax on tier 2, a bias in favor of
new oil,

I am sure this would not apply to the
Senator from Rhode Island, but I think
there are many people who may be un-
aware of the fact that it costs a lot of
money to increase production of tier 2
oil in many fields, that it is not just a
question of opening another valve or
turning up the rheostat. In many cases,
we are talking about massive expendi-
tures. That is my understanding.

Would the Senator not agree that we
are really creating a situation in which
we are skewing the investment incen-
tive more toward new oil than toward
increased production from tier 2 re-
serves?

Mr. CHAFEE. I would not necessarily
agree with that, because the projections
we have, the forecasts, to the best of the
ability of those who do them, show that
raising the tax from 60 to 75 percent—I
think we have to accept as a basis that
the tax is going to be at least 60 percent,
that having passed the House and that
having come out of the committee in the
Senate. The difference between the tax
going from 60 to 70 percent, as far as re-
flection on production, is minimal. It is in
the neighborhood of a 1-percent decrease
in the expected production. These figures
come from the Congressional Budget Of-
fice analysis of the tax that has been
proposed here, both the 60 and the 75
percent.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Does the CBO also
provide us an estimate of the impact of
the imposition of the first 60 percent of
the windfall tax?

Mr. CHAFEE. They do provide that,
but, frankly, that is not at issue here. I
do not think anybody has raised the
point or suggestion that we are not going
to have the 60 percent.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Now is as good a
time to raise it as any and, since the
Senator has the data in front of him,
would he share it with us? I was not in
on that discussion in committee and I
would be interested to know what the
projected cost in production of this wind-
fall tax is going to be.
the Senator pointed out that we would
not lose very much by raising it from 60
to 75 percent and that may well be true.
I cannot help observing that probably, if
we raised it to 90 or 95 or 100 percent, it
might not change things much, because it
appears to me that we have so seriously
discouraged this production that we have
curtailed it very drastically to start with.

Mr. CHAFEE. Suppose I refer the Sen-
ator to the material and, since I am not
here in defense of zero to 60, I am here
for the 60 to 75.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I see the Senator
from Kansas has arrived. Perhaps he
would be willing to inform us as to the
extent of the effect on production of the
60-percent tax on tier 2 oil. Is that going
to seriously inhibit the production of oil
from tier 2 reserves, in the Senator’s
opinion?

Mr. DOLE. In this Senator’s opinion,
it will. I had some figures yesterday. I
think I cited a couple of hundred thou-
sand barrels a day or more.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I believe, as I saw
the Senator's statement from yesterday,
that he was citing figures that indicated
that merely increasing the percentage
from 60 to 75 percent would cost 200,000
barrels of production daily.

Mr. DOLE. Right. That is correct.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. The Senator from
Rhode Island was making the point that
this is a minimal amount, which piqued
my curiosity as to how much the 60 per-
cent was depressing production. It oc-
curs to me, and I may have said it off the
record in jest to someone, that it really
does not matter if we increase it to 150
percent; if they do not have any incen-
tive left, they will not produce any oil.

The question the Senator from Rhode
Island and I were exploring was this: If
we seriously undermine the incentive for
production of tier 2 oil, do we not, in ef-
fect, create a bias for the production of
new oil? If that is so, if we depress it
down to where only as much as $1 or
$1.50 would go to a producer from an in-
cremental dollar of gain of production
from tier 2 oil, are we not really saying
to them, “Look, we are giving up on tier
2 increases; go out and find new fields,
new production”?

Mr. DOLE. I agree with the Senator
from Colorado. In fact, it has been sug-
gested that what will happen—I do not
say they are going to abandon all this
tier 2 oil, but they are not going to drill
the offsets. They are going to go out and
do some wildcatting and try to find that
new oil that is, so far, exempt from tax.
In the oil business, you have to keep the
cash flow going. You have to have some
money to drill with.

It seems to me, and I do not know
whether the Senator from Colorado has
taken the position against any tax at all
or on what rate, but the Senator from
Kansas will vote for a tax. I just think
we are going too high at 75 percent.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. Let me ask the
Senator from Kansas this question: It
seems to me that a lot of people are un-
der the impression that increasing tier 2
production is a routine thing for a pro-
ducer or a company, that it is relatively
easy. I have the contrary impression,
that it requires the investment of mas-
sive amounts of capital and really, those
investments of capital, equipment and
technology are an alternative toward
some other use of capital and energy and
management ability and so on. So we are
really saying to producers, “If you have a
choice to make, you had better weigh the
consequences pretty seriously.” Most of
them, or many of them, are going to go
toward new production, as the Senator
pointed out.

The reason that concerns me is this: I
am advised by geologists and economists
and others that the best near-term po-
tential for increasing domestic produc-
tion of petroleum is precisely in these ex-
isting fields. I am all for increasing pro-
duction from new fields, for production
of energy from synfuels, gasohol, and so
on. But if we are talking about a near-
term increase, it really has to come from
our existing fields. Would the Senator
agree with that?

Mr. DOLE. I agree with that. I believe
there is this feeling that the oil wells
are going to produce in any event, but
it is going to cost money. Some of these
projects are quite costly.

In a recent investigation by the De-
partment of Energy, it was found that
the figures the oil industry has been sup-
plying are accurate. But if the industry
increases production, they say 150,000
barrels per day in 1990, or 200,000 over
that period from 1979 to 1990, we would
lose about a billion barrels of domestic
production. If we are going to import
this oil, even at, an average price over
that period, we are going to spend about
$42 billion overseas. So it seems to me
that we are going in the wrong direction.

The President asked for a 50 percent
tax, the House raised it to 60. In the
Senate Finance Committee on tier 2, we
left it on 60. We raised the tax on tier 1
to 75. We made other changes in the
finance bill.

Now, on the Senate floor, it appears
there may be the votes to increase the
tier 2 tax to 75 percent.

The Senator from Kansas is trying to
point out that this may be just the be-
ginning. If we lose this battle, then there
is going to be another battle to knock
out the phase out, or to do away with
the depletion allowance, or to impose a
minimum tax. We might as well make
our fight on this issue.

Why stop talking now, if we are going
to say, “All right, we will give in on this,”
and somebody else will bring up another
tax. There are some in this body who
just want to tax. There are some who
want to produce, and there are some who
want to find a balance. I hope we can
find a majority in that balance category.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I very much ap-
preciate the explanation by the Senator
from Kansas.

Mr. President, I want to make a couple
of observations. Then I am going to yield
the floor.

First of all, I thank my friend from
Rhode Island for joining me in colloquy
and educating me as to the background
and details on this. I compliment him
for the leadership he has shown on this
issue. This is a very complex question.
This whole area of tax policy as it re-
lates to oil is byzantine in its complexity.
2Ul OMS WAU 25 UY & AIEEE UE Ue 2A
nance Committee, it is terribly hard to
follow. I particularly appreciate his
courtesy and his patience in explaining
some of the in’s and out’s of this to me
on the floor.

Mr. CHAFEE. I wish to say to the
Senator from Colorado that I think the
questions he raised are excellent ones.
It is very thoughtful and careful ques-
tioning. I think it greatly contributed
to the debate here on the fioor.

So I congratulate him for the points
he has raised and for the light he has
shed on this very difficult topic.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I very much ap-
preciate that.

Particularly, in the light of the Sena-
tor’s response, I am pained to find my-
self in the position of opposing the
amendment which the Senator has of-
fered. Instinctively, when I learned of
the Senator’s sponsorship of an amend-
ment on the floor, I was inclined to
support it, because of that sponsorship.
I am sorry I am constrained to do other-
wise.

I would also like to comment briefly
on the remarks of the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. Doe) and to compliment
him for his leadership, not only on the
floor, but the way in which he has led the
minority on the Senate Finance Com-
mittee, and the contribution he has made
to the debate.

I think he has really put his finger
on the issue that concerns most Ameri-
cans, which deeply concerns me, and
which I trust, in the ultimate analysis,
after we have talked this through to
conclusion, will be the overriding con-
cern of the Members of the Senate, and
that is energy production.

It is fine to think about levying a tax
against a very unpopular group of com-
panies, the energy companies. I suggest
that if we are not careful, we will be
very much in the position of the man
who comes home from the office after
a hard and frustrating day in which his
customers, employer, employees, and all
the people with whom he has come in
contact have been disagreeable. In his
frustration, he comes home and takes
it out on his wife, family, children, kicks
the dog on the way in, and insults the
neighbors.

We are all frustrated. It is perfectly
true, the Nation’s energy picture has
turned very bad. We are frustrated by
what is going on in Iran. But I think
we are on the brink of making the Na-
tion’s energy companies a scapegoat for
the problems.

I think this tax bill, in its very essence,
and in the mood I see so clearly ex-
pressed in some quarters, not by the
Senator from Rhode Island, but by some
Members of this body and many people
throughout the country, is an attitude
and a mood of, “Let’s punish the oil
companies.”

Ido not think that is a responsible way
to legislate. I think it will lead to the kind
of tax measure we will regret.

I suggest to my colleagues in the Sen-
ate that the proper focus of tax policy-
making ought to be to create a tax struc-
ture which will maximize rather than
minimize production of domestic energy.
Bese UU SOAS ¢ VU SEE ES CES Fee ES

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I am very pleased
to yield to the Senator.

Mr. WALLOP. This is just for com-
ment, because the Senator is dead right.

Earlier, when the Senator said the
problems that the country is frustrated
by and suffering from are not of the oil
companies’ making, indeed, they are of
our own making, of the making of Con-
gress, the Department of Energy’s mak-
ing, Republican and Democratic admin-
istration making, going back 15, 20, 25
years.

I said yesterday, the most bizarre thing
of all is when God made no attempt to
distinguish between the type of dinosaurs
he laid down, and we cannot tell the dif-
ference when it burns in our furnace or
our car. But we have somehow or other
been able to determine there are 28 va-
rieties of natural gas and 15 or 20 varie-
ties of oil, though it all comes out to the
same thing.

People are genuinely unwilling to face
what really is at the root of our trouble,
that we have lived on a subsidized energy
economy for 20 years, and it hurts to go
to a true cost energy economy, and we
can no longer subsidize it because there
is not enough around and we do not have
control over it any longer.

In the long run, if this country gets to
the position where it can produce 70 to
75 percent of its own energy needs, and
it has demonstrated the potential to
crawl up from less than 50 percent to
that figure, we will see oil prices and
energy prices competitive with various
forms.

I said to the Senator from New Mexico
yesterday, the one thing, when we were
really dealing with the energy security
corporation, that all companies agreed
they wanted protection from, was not
the risk of investing capital, not the risk
of failing technology, they wanted to be
protected from a decline in the price of
oil by the OPEC countries, if they got
involved in the heavy synthetic fuel
thing, which would cost $30 a barrel and
was competitive then. But as soon as we
began to get independent, the opportun-
ity to go in the world, just manifests it-
self, people will be worried about their
own national self-interest, their own na-
tional economy, and they will see to it
they can prolong as long as they can the
deliveries they have to support their own
people.

It makes sense. We cannot blame them
for it. But we do not have to assist them
in the process by continuing to hold our-
selves hostage to the very policies that
create the circumstances under which
we now exist.

Mr. President, I compliment the Sen-
ator.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I think the Sena-
tor summed it up very well.

I ask the Senator if he would not agree
that, in its very essence, the effect of
this bill will be to increase the delivered
price of petroleum.

Mr. WALLOP. In effect, it will.

The most pernicious part has been
pointed out by those who like to say they
will not increase the price, because only
the producers pay, that is because abso-
a1 aon ae 8 tree ewe

orien

RZ2ROOROO 88 RO%- O

On ohms OO

on

Peocweinri tt Ome

wei =

a BZ

Se SS I | eee oF Same
nothing to do with profits.

Indeed. the wonderful statement in the
House summary of the bill they passed
was that in order to prevent it from be-
coming too burdensome, the tax is lim-
ited to 100 percent net profit from the
property. That is, indeed, generous, I
have to say.

Almost anybody could get excited by
that kind of benign treatment from their
uncle in Washington. But it is basically
absurd.

The reason it will raise the price is
that it will cut down our ability to pro-
duce any and, therefore, leave with
OPEC the leverage they now have to
raise prices at will.

Obviously, ours will be a reflection of
that price. It is now.

I see, once again, the Secretary of the
Treasury, who apparently has no knowl-
edge of how that part of our economy
works, complaining about how all OPEC
countries were wondering why the Amer-
ican companies were continuing to raise
prices.

If he looked at the price list, he would
find they have not raised it; that the
prices of oil have not been raised.

I do not know where he gets these
things, except in a desperate attempt to
put another campaign ribbon on his
chest, called the windfall profit tax.

They are willing to resort to almost
any subterfuge to fool the public into
believing that not only does the admin-
istration want it, but so do the Saudis,
the OPEC countries, and everybody else.

That, on the face of it, is preposterous.
They want the windfall profit tax be-
cause it extends deliveries.

Mr. ARMSTRONG. The Senator is
correct.

Mr. President, I will yield in a mo-
ment. I see the Senator from Idaho and
others are here to discuss the issues. I
am eager to yield to them.

Mr. President, I will sum up in this
way. Clearly, the effect of the bill, par-
ticularly as modified by the pending
amendment, in the unfortunate case that
may be adopted, is to increase the cost
of doing business and to decrease the
domestic production of energy.

There is some dispute as to the ex-
tent to which the tax and the amend-
ment will decrease domestic production.

One of the Senators sponsoring it says
it will only be a minimal decrease. Others,
including the CBO, estimate the incre-
mental decrease caused by this amend-
ment will be 200,000 barrels per day on
top of the millions of barrels a day de-
crease caused by the first 60 percent of
the tax on the windfall increase. But
there is no dispute, so far as I am aware,
that the result will be less production.

I think we are focusing on the wrong
kind of tax policy. I think we should write
an energy bill that will increase, not
decrease, production of domestic natural
gas and petroleum. It seems to me that
we will do a disservice to the Nation and
that we will bring disgrace upon this
Chamber if we act in frustration or
anger.

I know how unpopular these oil pro-
ducers are. I know that it will be well
received, as the Senator from Wyoming
a ee, ee eS MR toll anton
“We really socked it to them.” But we
should bear in mind that all of us will
pay the consequences of it if we act
unwisely.

I suggest that we enact a windfall
profits tax that generates plowback pro-
visions, with the kinds of incentives
which will encourage production and re-
invest the profits from production, so
that the money will not be dissipated in
various kinds of popular programs; that.
instead, the increased profits will be di-
rectly plowed back into the most urgent
economic need facing this country, and
that is the production of more energy.

When I came to the floor, I had in mind
that this bill, as it was reported by the
committee, was roughly analogous to
shooting yourself in the foot. I think
that is about right, because it is a bill
which, if enacted, will injure us. To ex-
tend the analogy, I suppose the effect of
this amendment is like shooting yourseif
in the kneecap after shooting yourself in
the foot.

I think I will get off the floor before
I find out where we are going to shoot
ourselves next.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield?

Mr. ARMSTRONG. I yield.

Mr. McCLURE. I thank the Senator
for yielding.

The analogy just made by the Senator
from Colorado reminds me of the man-
ner in which the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. Wattop) made a similar statement
somewhat earlier in this debate.

Ordinarily, we think of a person who
shoots himself in the foot as the quick-
draw artist who got the gun stuck in his
holster as he was trying to get it out,
and shot himself in the foot. However,
Senator WaLLop pointed out that we are
not so much shooting ourselves in the
foot by accident but are taking dead aim
and shooting ourselves in the foot.

I think the Senator’s statement is
accurate, because we are not simply
accidentally doing something unknow-
ingly. It is something that has been dis-
cussed frequently enough and openly
enough and with sufficient facts to indi-
cate that it is no accident. What the
people taking this action should know
is that when they pull the trigger, the
gun is going to discharge, and they will
shoot themselves in the foot. They are
willing to impose that punishment on the
American consumer, on American
society—the punishment they want to
level upon the oil companies.

UP AMENDMENT NO. 849
(Purpose: To impose a windfall profit tax
on domestic crude oil by an amendment

perfecting title I of H.R. 3919)

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I send
an amendment to the desk and ask for
its immediate consideration.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
amendment will be stated.

The legislative clerk read as follows:

‘The Senator from Idaho (Mr. McCuure).
for himself, Mr. Cocuran, Mr. JEpsEN, and
Mr. Garn, proposes an unprinted amend-
ment numbered 849.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I ask

unanimous consent that reading of the
amendment be dispensed with.

CE ee
Mgmt Na Te ae aie ¥en i cette ping i a tal — iO abate” igh nae atl
objection, it is so ordered.

The amendment is as follows:

On page 2, line 4, strike all through and
including page 73, line 12 and insert in Neu
thereof the following:

Section 2. Part II of subchapter A of chap-
ter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
amended (relating to corporation income
taxes), is amended by adding after section 12
® new section as follows:

“Sec. 18. Excess PETROLEUM Prorits TAX.

“(a) In Generat.—Notwithstanding other
taxes imposed by this subtitle, an excess prof-
its surtax is hereby imposed on the taxable
Income of all petroleum industry corpora-
tions for each taxable year beginning after
December 31, 1978. The surtax shall be equal
to the surcharge as computed under subsec-
tion (b).

“(b) SurncHarce.—The surcharge is equal
to 90 percent of the amount by which the
taxable income exceeds the surcharge exemp-
tion for the taxable year. Section 11 shall only
apply to that amount of taxable income
which does not exceed the surcharge exemp-
tion for the taxable year.

“(c) SurcHaRGE ExeMPTION.—For the pur-
poses of this section, the surcharge exemp-
tion for any taxable year shall be the per-
centage rate of a return, on the capital in-
vestment of a petroleum industry corpora-
tion, equal to the average rate of return on
capital investment for all manufacturing
corporations for that taxable year. Determi-
nation of the average rate of return on capi-
tal investment, by industry and for all
manufacturing corporations, shall be made
by the Federal Trade Commission and sub-
mitted in its quarterly financial reports for
manufacturing corporations, beeginning with
the quarter following enactment of this bill.
‘The Commissioner is further directed to com-
pile and publish the rate of return on capital
investment, by industry and for all manufac-
turing corporations, starting with the first
quarter of 1979 and extending through the
quarter in which this bill is enacted.

“(d) ExeMprions.—

“(1) SMALL corPorATIONS.—This section
shall apply to all petroleum industry corpo-
rations having an invested capital structure
exceeding $2,500,000.

“(2) Ser-asmwe FUND.—The corporation may
establish a special fund to be used according
to subsection (f) in which yearly income,
subject to the surcharge, may be set aside
without surcharge consequence. However,
such set-aside funds which are not properly
invested within 5 years of the taxable year
in which they were earned shall be subject to
the surcharge with no further exceptions.

“(e) DEFINITIONS.—

“(1) PETROLEUM INDUSTRY CORPORATION.—
For purposes of this section the term ‘petro-
leum industry corporation’ means any cor-
poration engaged in the exploration, extrac-
tion, refining, transportation, distribution,
manufacture, production, and/or sale of any
petroleum product as its principal business.

“(2) TAXABLE INCOME.—For purposes of
computation of the surcharge imposed by
this section, taxable income shall be com-
puted without regard to any deductions al-
lowed by reason of the carryback or carryover
of any loss.

“(f1) SpectaL Depucrion.—In computing
the surcharge imposed by this section, there
shall be excluded from income, subject to the
surcharge, an amount equal to the invest-
ment made in the same taxable year or as
authorized under subsection (d) (2), for the
following purposes:

“(1) exploration or development of new
domestic fuel;

“(2) imcreased domestic productive ca-
pacity;

“*(3) research and development of new do-
mestic energy sources, fuels, or uses;

a Se ee ee oe ee  Y + @0 020g *ngm fo

Pe. en
technology affecting:

“(A) location,

“(B) production,

“(C) transportation,

“(D) conversion,

“(E) processing,

“(F) utilization,

“(@) pollution abatement, or

“(H) conservation; or

“(5) other investment reasonably calcu-
lated to increase the domestic energy supply
or the more efficient use of such energy
supply.”

Sec. 3. (a) Section 48(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (relating
to investment tax credits), is amended by in-
serting at the end of clause (1) (B) (ili) the
following:

“(iv) constitutes a domestic research and
development facility for mew or expanded
energy sources, or

“(iv) constitutes tangible property spe-
cifically invested in to increase the domestic
energy supply or its more efficient use, or’.

(b) Section 48 of such Code is amended by
redesignating subsection (k) as (1), and by
inserting after subsection (j) the following:

“(k) New or Expanvep ENERGY SouRCEs.—

“(1) NEw ENERGY souRces.—This term
shall include (but not be restricted to) ofl
shale, tar sand, coal liquefaction, coal gasifi-
cation, geothermal, solar, hydrogen, and
magnetohydrodynamics energy.

“(2) EXPANDED ENERGY sOURCES.—This
term shall include (but not be restricted
to) the energy sources in (1), plus petro-
leum, coal, hydroelectric, and atomic en-
ergy sources.”.

Sec. 4. (a) The Secretary shall prescribe
such regulations as may be necessary to
carry out the purposes of this Act, except as
provided for in section 3(b). ~

(b) The Commissioner of the Federal
Trade Commission shall prescribe such regu-
lations and procedures as are necessary to
carry out the compilation and publication of
rate of return data as directed in section
1(c) of this Act.

Src, 4. The amendments made by this Act
shall become effective with respect to taxable
years beginning after December 31, 1978.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I point
out that this is an amendment offered
to the House bill, not an amendment to
the Senate bill.

Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President, I ob-
ject, if there is a request for immediate
consideration.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho has the right to have
the amendment considered, since it is
directed to the underlying House bill
and does, therefore, take precedence
over the amendments pending.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, the
amendment I have offered is amendment
No. 588, which I had submitted earlier,
which has been printed, but which was,
as submitted and printed, an amend-
ment to the Senate bill. In view of the
parliamentary situation at the present
time, it is not possible for me to offer
such an amendment to the Senate meas-
ure, but it has been redrafted to be an
amendment to the underlying House
bill. I mention amendment No. 588 so
that people might be aware of the sub-
stance of the amendment I have offered.

Mr. President, we keep talking about
windfall profit tax. We talk about wind-
fall, somehow related to an excess profit.
We are always talking about profit,
when, in truth and in fact, the pending
measure is unrelated to profit, except
in a most obtuse and indirect way. It

TCIALES, Svea, WH VPIVUMCLIUE bAhA UE
an excise tax on the production of oil,
irrespective of the amount of profit. My
amendment is drafted to be truly an
excess profit tax.

Did the oil companies make too much
money? Have they made too little
money? My amendment will not try to
define how much they have made, nor
will it make a judgment as to whether
they have made too much or too little,
with one exception, and that is to say
that oil companies, like any other cor-
porate enterprise in the United States,
are entitled to profits.

“Profit” is not a dirty word. It is not
even a four-letter word. Our business
operates on the fundamental, basic
premise that profits are necessary in any
business enterprise. This amendment
says that, as a matter of definition, an
oil company profit cannot be excessive
unless it is at least the average rate of
return on invested capital of all indus-
trials. I do not know of anyone who
would say, in good faith, that oil com-
panies should make less on invested cap-
ital than other industrial enterprises in
our society. Whether or not they are
above or below the average rate of return
on invested capital of all industrials is
a matter of fact. It is a matter of compu-
tation. It is a matter that can be dis-
cerned easily from an examination of
the investment and profit picture of all
industries in the United States, including
the oil companies. If they fall below the
average rate of return, then certainly
they should not be subjected to a wind-
fall or excess profit tax.

If, as a matter of fact, they lie above
the average rate of return, then we
might have a legitimate reason to look
at what they are doing and a legitimate
reason to wonder about the size of that
profit and the way in which it is gener-
ated and what is done with that profit
after it is generated, after it has been
paid by the American consumers to oil
companies for the use of the products
they produce and sell. Then, the Ameri-
can consumer would have a legitimate
right to look at that profit and say, “We
are concerned that our payment of a
very high price for energy has generated
a very high rate of return, and we want
es know how you are going to spend

at.”

My amendment would go beyond that
and say that any rate of return in excess
of the average rate of return on invested
capital of all industrials would be sub-
ject to an excess profits tax—by defini-
tion, saying that anything that is above
the average rate of return is excessive for
oil companies. Not for newspapers, not
for soft drink companies, not for broad-
cast media, but only for oil companies is
it defined as excessive to make more
than the average rate of return.

However, as a matter of law, we say
for oil companies, “In view of the special
and unique circumstances we find our-
selves in today, we will tax you if you
make more than the average rate of re-
turn, and we will tax you very heavily.”
My amendment provides for a 90-per-
cent tax on all in excess of the average
rate of return.
SAD SAME IU PUNY, 22 VARY ASSO
are being ripped off by an OPEC cartel
that has inordinately raised prices, which
results in a better average rate of return
for the oil companies, has a right to be
concerned about that, and we are going
to tax that amount at the rate of 90 per-
cent. There may be those who say it
should be 100 percent or those who think
it should be 50 percent. But at least we
should be able to agree in principle that
what we are going to deal with in the
taxation of oil company profits is that
which is excessive, not that which is
average or below.

My amendment goes one step further
in that it provides that those profits be
directed toward the solution of the
problem. We do not take the money and
create Federal enterprises. We redirect
the profits that are made that are above
the average rate of return to solving the
problems that cause the profits to be
generated.

Mr. LONG. Mr. President, will the Sen-
ator yield for a question?

Mr. McCLURE. I am happy to yield
to the Senator from Louisiana without
losing my right to the floor.

Mr. LONG. Mr. President, do I under-
stand that the Senator is contending that
we should not regard a company as mak-
ing an excess profit in the event that the
company is not making more than the
average profit being made by corpora-
tions generally across the country?

Mr. McCLURE. The Senator is cor-
rect.

Mr. LONG. In other words, assume for
the sake of argument that we think of
profit as a return on investment and as-
sume that the average corporate return
after tax is about 10 percent. If a com-
pany is not making 10 percent after
press then one should not be regarded

an excess profit simply be-
Cates he is making the same amount that
everyone else is making.

Mr. McCLURE. The Senator is cor-
rect. That is exactly what I am attempt-
ing to do in this legislation.

Mr. LONG. Of course, there are situ-
ations, are there not, where tax laws ap-
ply differently to different companies and
companies keep their books on different
bases? For example, some use a first-in
first-out inventory method and others
use a last-in last-out inventory method.
Some companies get the benefit of a per-
centage depletion—well, no, they do not
get a benefit of percentage depletion,
except a few small ones.

Mr. McCLURE. And some in the min-
erals industry.

Mr. LONG. Some do, but others do not.

Is it not true that in the banking fra-
ternity, where they are in the business
of lending money to people, they have
ways to adjust for those differences to
analyze how much profit one should be
making if he is in a particular line of
endeavor?

Mr. McCLURE. Certainly they do, not
only in the banking community but in
the financial community generally be-
cause that is the way our economy works
to allocate capital. If I want capital to
go into one venture as compared to an-
other venture there has to be a compari-
OODereV Oe BerwerO nw ri NO ww ob

Ll cad

Nh, A etn

eve. Veo. EAM SUES UL Walk
make a comparison between what are
my opportunities for a profit in this
venture if I invest my capital there as
compared to my opportunity for profit
in another venture.

Mr. LONG. Will the Senator yield
further?

Mr. McCLURE. Of course.

Mr. LONG. Is it consistent with the
Senator's argument to say that to merely
compare the profit a company made in
one year with the same quarter in the
succeeding year and to suggest that be-
cause a company made more money in
1979 than it did in 1978 it has an excess
profit? That is a very shortsighted way
i try to arrive at what an excess profit

Mr. McCLURE. I agree with the Sena-
tor that comparisons for one period of
time against another are difficult to
make and sometimes misleading because
the selection of the period will some-
times alter the results dramatically. In
my amendment I have suggested that we
do it on an annual basis simply because
we have to settle on some period, one year
against another. This may not yield the
kind of results we want but at least it
will be a comparison of this industry
against another industry in the same
time frame.

Mr. LONG. I thank the Senator.

Mr. McCLURE. I thank the Senator
for his question.

Mr. President, I think it is also useful
to note in building upon the comments
the distinguished Senator from Louisi-
ana has made that some companies
make more than others do. Some en-
tities in the petroleum business make
more than others do. Why should we be
passing a tax that is equal for all of
them without regard to whether or not
they have made a profit? If we have a
small company that is contributing to
the Nation’s energy supply but has had
no profit or has had below average
profits, why should we tax away its
ability to provide energy to this country
simply on the basis that somehow we
have the picture that all oil worldwide
is making too much money? That is
irrational. It runs against what is right
for a national energy policy and certainly
runs contrary to every bit of philosophy
that we have with respect to our tax
laws.

Mr. LONG. Mr. President, will the
Senator yield for a question at that
point?

Mr. McCLURE. Of course, I am happy

Mr. LONG. To carry the situation to
the ridiculous extreme is it not unrea-
sonable to take the attitude that because
Exxon made a lot of money in buying
some cheap oil from Saudi Arabia and
selling it in Europe that some other com-
pany, let us say Union Oil Co., not mak-
ing anything like that kind of profit, not
even able to buy any oil from Saudi
Arabia, should be subjected to an excess
profit tax in view of the fact that Exxon
made a profit somewhere else?

Mr. McCLURE. I agree with the Sen-
ator totally. That is one of the differences
we have as we look at the entire picture,
as the senavor irom Comrade (Mr. ARM~
STRONG) a few moments ago talked about
the Byzantine labyrinth of trying to trace
through all of the financial dealings of
ull the oil companies. One of the prob-
lems we have, of course, is that some oil
companies make a great deal of their
money based on foreign operations.

I point out, as the Senator well knows,
a few years ago we were talking about the
evils of multinational oil companies that
were operating in foreign countries, and
the result, of course, was that most of
their operations in foreign countries
have now been nationalized. What effect
did that have on the oil companies or the
American consumer? What we did before
was: those oil companies operating, say,
in Kuwait or Saudi Arabia would drill
for the oil. They would write off their
expenses in that country. They would
transport the oil to this country. They
would pay their royalties and whatever
fees they paid to the host country and
sell the oil on the east coast of this coun-
at about $1.90 a barrel, having made a
net profit to themselves on that transac-
tion of about 45 cents a barrel typically.

Today, they do not own that oil. They
do not transport that oil. They simply
operate as an agent for the host country
and they still make their 45 cents a
barrel in profit as a lifting fee, as a man-
agement fee for having done that, and
the result then must be that all of the
increase in cost has flowed into the
treasury of the foreign countries without
affecting the profits of the domestic
multinational oi] company at all.

They still make the same amount per
barrel as they made before. They make
it in a different manner. But there we do
run into the problem of a company that
has that foreign operation and makes
that profit overseas. A very large per-
centage of their profit may be in those
management fees overseas, as compared
to a domestic producer who has no for-
eign operations and has no foreign profit
to put into their Treasury.

The Senator is correct. But it is an-
other one of the examples of the diffi-
culty that we have as we try to write
a statute that has absolutely a blanket
effect and makes no distinction between
the circumstances of different producers.
I think it should make the distinction as
well as doing what is helpful to us in
meeting the demands of energy supply
in this country.

It is always amazing to me to hear
people who want to somehow strike at
the OPEC cartel by the very actions that
they take strengthen the OPEC cartel.

This legislation we have been consider-
ing here on the floor, the so-called ex-
cess or windfall profit tax, is by many
argued as a punitive measure against the
OPEC cartel, somehow to hurt them. It
does not hurt them at all. There is not
anybody who is more delighted with a
large tax than the OPEC cartel because
they are immune from the tax.

What it will do is raise the price to the
American consumer, and the American
consumer takes it in the neck. Who in the
world believes you can put that tax on a
product at the middle level without af-
fecting the market price of that product
flowing to the consumer?

oo wreom wen owt ocrmraoncnt woo cen Sac Sorrow

one oe
mr, rresiagent, 10 fies in the face OL
reality to suggest that by taxation we
can strengthen the industry that is taxed
in its ability either to resist the OPEC
cartel or to provide supplies for the
American consumer.

Some people have been arguing, and I
understand the argument, the facts are
hard to come by, but they have been ar-
guing, about how much different levels of
taxation will affect production in this
country. Will it be 700,000 barrels a day
or 1 million barrels a day or 1.5 million
barrels a day?

Mr. President, I want to just remind
the Senate that the 700,000-barrels-a-
day figure that has been used is almost
identical to the amount we were getting
from Iran, and we look for an impact
upon our market as a result of the loss
of the Iranian production.

So now not only are we going to lose
that production, we are going to penalize
ourselves by imposing another similar
reduction on domestic production that is
totally unnecessary and, in my view, un-
justified.

Mr. President, I see the distinguished
Senator from Mississippi (Mr. CocHran),
a cosponsor of this amendment, is on the
floor, and I would be happy to yield to
him for some remarks at this time.

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator for yielding.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
the distinguished Senator from Idaho
gave up the floor, did he not? He yielded
for some remarks.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. Hup-
DLESTON) . He yielded the floor.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. All right, then
I have the floor.

Mr. President, I would be glad to yield
to the Senator if he wishes to make a
brief statement. By unanimous consent
I yield to the Senator for a statement,
providing I do not lose my right to the
floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection? Without objection, it is so or-
dered.

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, I thank
the distinguished majority leader for
yielding to me.

I was very distressed, Mr. President,
when I began reviewing the provisions of
this legislation that was coming to the
floor of the Senate under the auspicious
title of “windfall profit tax” when it be-
came apparent that the tax has no re-
lationship whatsoever to profits.

I want to compliment the Senator from
Idaho for devising a proposal to present
to the Senate which really gets at the
question that is before us, and that the
President and the administration sug-
gest needs attention by the Congress, and
that is the question of profits.

This amendment, which I am delighted
to cosponsor, will approach the problem
from the standpoint of providing for a
tax on excess profits.

In the legislation from the committee
there is no relationship, there is no tax
on profits. It is just a tax on oil. The one
thing I think we all realize is that oil
does not pay tax, people do. People pay
the tax. What we are going to get in
this bargain is the worst of all possible
worlds. We are going to get shorter sup-

poermpestt

SpPmontuUOretoc ae rpPaoantnna

eu eaeaemnt rons nmeerenanusD

er

eaeie sian

Pn Se ee eye
ples ana higher prices. Nobody is going
to be benefited except those who want
to see the Federal Government get bigger
and have more of the money that is gen-
erated in the United States to be spent
by those in Government positions of
authority.

‘We have had some very clear and per-
suasive testimony in hearings before con-
gressional committees that one of the
real serious problems we have in the
country is a shortfall of capital. I know
a few years ago Secretary Simon made
the observation that Government was
usurping the capital in this country to
the tune of about 65 percent a year, leav-
ing 35 percent of the available capital
out there for private industry, business
people, farmers, consumers to fight over,
necessarily putting horrendous pressure
on interest rates, and making it difficult
for people to buy or acquire a home or
an automobile.

This action, if it is taken by the Sen-
ate on the bill from the Finance Com-
mittee, is going to exacerbate that very
problem. We have a proposal that is
going to take capital out of the private
sector and transfer it to the public sec-
tor for disposition by Government offi-
cials in Washington. It is not a tax on
profits.

On the other hand, Mr. President, we
have given the Senate by this amend-
ment an opportunity to vote on an excess
profits proposal. A tax will be imposed
on the excess that an oil company, a
business entity engaged in the oil busi-
ness, earns over and above that rate of
return for manufacturing in the United
States generally. A tax of 90 percent on
the excess will be required to be paid
unless the profits are reinvested into
energy-producing activity—not just oil-
producing activity, but energy-produc-
tion efforts.

As a national goal we want to encour-
age investment in energy producticn,
and that is why we have theses programs
that are designed to make loan guaran-
tees, provide Government assistance to
those who want to get into the business
of producing synthetic fuels.

We also want to make it attractive for
investors to put their money into ex-
ploration and production of traditional
fossil fuels.

I think, Mr. President, that a careful
look at the alternative that is before the
Senate now will convince most Senators
who are interested in restraining excess
profits, who are interested in keeping a
windfall from occurring that will benefit
just a few companies, so that they will
vote for the McClure-Cochran substitute.
This amendment is, in effect, a substi-
tute. You can have a choice: a broad-
based excise tax that will be imposed on
profitable operations and nonprofitable
operations, big operators, little operators,
anybody who is in the oil business is
going to have to be subjected to this ex-
cise tax.

It will not help us produce a single
new barrel of oil or a cubic foot of nat-
ural gas. But if we design a plan to force
reinvestment, to force investment of the
Nation’s capital, into energy production,
we will get more energy. But if we divert
all of that capital to Washington to give
to the people downtown to think up new
programs, throw around money all over
the country on a harebrained scheme
somebody might develop that he says is
going to save us in the energy area, then
I think we are making a big mistake,
and I think the adoption of the commit-
tee recommendation is going to be a hor-
rible mistake.

We can talk about how we have saved
the people from the indignity of sitting
back and observing companies make
windfall profits, unearned profits, by
passing this bill from the committees.

But when the people find out that this
bill does not have a thing in the world
to do with profits, they are going to come
back, look at us, and say, “I thought you
took care of the profits picture?” This
does not have a thing to do with profits.
They will get short supplies, higher
prices, and wonder why.

Somebody will suggest, “Well, it is
OPEC again,” or “It is the oil companies
figuring out a way to get around these
taxes.”

I am suggesting that the more respon-
sible approach, Mr. President, would be
to adopt a true excess profits tax forcing
reinvestment into energy production and,
thereby, living up to the commitment
the administration has made and the
leadership in Congress has made to do
something about the windfall profit
scare,

I appreciate very much the majority
leader yielding to me.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
does the distinguished Senator from Mis-
sissippi wish to continue to speak?

Mr. COCHRAN. Mr. President, if the
majority leader will indulge me just for
a moment——

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Surely.

Mr. COCHRAN. I have completed my
remarks. I thank the distinguished ma-
jority leader.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I thank the
Senator. Does any other Senator wish to
speak at the moment?

Mr. President, I intend to offer an
amendment shortly. It is being prepared.
I will be glad to yield to any Senator
who wishes to address the Senate in the
meantime.

RECESS FOR 30 MINUTES

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent, with the understanding that I be
recognized when the Senate goes back
into session, that the Senate stand in
recess for 30 minutes.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?

There being no objection, at 2:42 p.m.
the Senate took a recess for 30 minutes.

The Senate reassembled at 3:12 p.m.,
when called to order by the Presiding
Officer (Mr. ZorInsky).

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia is recognized.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate stand in recess for 30 minutes
under the same conditions; to wit, that
the majority leader be recognized upon
reconvening.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, reserv-
ing the right to object, and I shall not,
I understand that the Senator is trying

Ss

rpc Dp

sSmroeonetsaauasta fA aot
or people are drafting an amendment to
be offered to the amendment of the Sen-
ator from Idaho. I have no objection to
that, and it would not do me any good if
I did, but I wonder if, at some point,
there will be an opportunity to debate
the issues of the McClure amendment. I
wonder if the distinguished majority
leader could give the Senator from Idaho
some assurance that that opportunity
will not be foreclosed.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. May I say to
the distinguished Senator, I could offer
my amendment now. I have not had it
read, but I do not want to offer it at this
point. Some discussions are going on. I
should like those discussions to go for-
ward. It is for that reason that I have
asked for a recess rather than put my
amendment in at this point.

I hope that will suffice.

Mr. McCLURE. Of course, I have no
objection, but again, I hope I shall have
some opportunity at some point to de-
bate more fully the amendment which I
have offered. I am willing to utilize this
time now to do that but, at the same
time, I understand what the majority
leader is attempting to do. I do not want
to interfere with that, either.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I thank the
distinguished Senator.

Mr, McCLURE. I have no objection,
Mr. President.

There being no objection, the Sen-
ate, at 3:13 p.m. recessed for 30 min-
utes; whereupon, at 3:43 p.m., the Sen-
ate reassembled when called to order by
the Presiding Officer (Mr. ZorINSKY) .

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senator from
West Virginia is recognized.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I thank the
Chair,

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that I may be permitted to yield to
the distinguished Senator from Idaho
(Mr. McCrure) for 30 minutes for the
purpose only of his making a statement,
with the understanding that I do not lose
my right to the floor, and with the fur-
ther understanding that the Chair will
entertain no motion, no unanimous-
consent request from any Member until
such time as I have again been recog-
nized.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

The Senator from Idaho is recog-
nized.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I
thank the Senator from West Virginia.

Mr. President, I am flattered by the
consternation in which the Senate has
been thrown by the offer of my amend-
ment, and I appreciate the fact that the
amendment is thus accorded a serious-
ness which I think it deserves.

I first introduced this amendment as
proposed legislation in this session of
Congress on April 5, and it was intro-
duced and given the number of S. 890.

At that time, I made these remarks:

Mr. President, decreasing the flow of for-
eign ofl into the United States cannot be
considered solely as an energy issue. The
strength of our dollar—both here and over-
sSeas—our national security, and the degree

of independence allowed us in making for-
eign policy decisions is at stake. The con-
gressional response to the Arab oil embargo
JR 2960 BUM 2091S ES VOC PAUVE & 4BiiUie Ww
sll but the most biased and irresponsible in-
lividuals. That our policy of crude oil price
-ontrols would fail was obvious at the time
of the debates on this issue. We had only
0 look at the pathetic history of natural gas
-ontrols to foresee what would happen. And,
it has occurred. Just as controls always pro-
duce both shortages and high prices, legis-
lation intended to reduce oil imports has di-
ectly created increased oil imports and
jriven prices higher. This policy must be
shanged now. Federal Government controls
on domestic crude oll must be removed ef-
fective June 1, 1979, if we are to begin to re-
juce the flood of foreign oil entering this
sountry.

What are the arguments against such a
Jecontrol? There are basically two. One, the
sonsumer would have to pay exorbitant
prices for fuel and, two, the oil companies
yould reap excess profits. Let us examine
each of these points.

If all domestic crude oll were to be de-
‘ontrolled, the price increase for gasoline,
‘uel oil, and other petroleum products would
yverage about 7 cents a gallon; 7 cents a
gallon. Is this too high a price to pay Ameri-
“an producers in order to reduce foreign oil
imports? I think not. And, we should con-
sider also that this 7-cent estimate is proba-
aly too high.

It would be reduced some by the lack of
Government control costs, estimated by some
to add as much as 5 cents a gallon to present
costs. In addition, under the present irra-
tional scheme of subsidies for foreign oil—
so-called entitlements program—the con-
sumers in Idaho and other States are paying
a share of the costs of fuel sold in New
England and the Northeast. Under decontrol,
they would no longer pay this subsidy,
thereby reducing even more the 7-cents
igure.

But, what about the issue of excess profits
‘or the oil companies. The solution here is
simple—tax it away. I am today introducing
the Excess Petroleum Profits Tax of 1979
and I ask unanimous consent that the text
pe printed in the Recorp at the conclusion
of my remarks.

And that request was then granted
and the text was printed in the Recorp
at_ the conclusion of my remarks.

I went on to say:

Mr. President, I first introduced this pro-
posal in 1975 and reintroduced it in 1977.
[ believe its time has come.

My bill will levy a 90-percent tax on the
income of the petroleum industry which ex-
seeds the average rate of return for all in-
justries. Now, I have provided a way for the
companies to avoid paying the tax—they
an reinvest the excess profits in domestic
energy production. Not circuses or depart-
ment stores or overseas refineries, but for
produced-in-U.S.A. energy. To those critics
of the ofl industry, I invite them to join
me in cosponsorship of this legislation and
let us get it passed now.

Nobody knows for certain how much ad-
ditional oil will be found under total de-
control. Estimates range from 500,000 barrels
3 day to 2,500,000 barrels a day. But, the
experience with natural gas proves that
more oil will be found. And, I would rather
see U.S. dollars going to Americans, and
being used to pay American wages and buy
American goods, rather than going overseas.
And, as OPEC realizes that we are serious
about reducing imports, this will provide a
break on future price increases. Under de-
sontrol, Americans will actually pay less for
il than under the present system where
pur dependence on OPEC oil grows each
year and we have to pay whatever price
SPEC sets.

For over 10 years, I have warned that our
nergy crisis is real and will not go away
CO OS eS Wee ae re EY) Wass VEE Ew
away when we stop listening to those who
have been proven wrong at every turn and
whose policies have brought us to this sorry
state. Our national security, our foreign
policy, and our economic well-being are now
dependent on foreign oil producers. This is
a disgrace and I call on my colleagues to
join with me in discarding the irrational,
self-defeating policies of the past and in
establishing an energy policy which truly
protects the people of this Nation.

Mr. President, the sad fact is that
while I did introduce that legislation in
1975, in 1977, and again in April of
1979 it has not yet been given the serious
consideration which it is now receiving
at this late date.

What would have happened had it
been pasesd even in 1975? Where would
we be today if it had been passed even in
1977? And what different circumstances
would we be facing in the debate here
today if it had been passed in April of
1979?

Mr. President, we are paying the price
of our own inaction. We would not be
confronted with OPEC official prices of
$23 a barrel, with spot prices ranging
much higher than that, if we had not
allowed ourselves to be placed in that
Position.

In the spring of 1973 in a speech in
Dallas I told some people in Texas “Don’t
be surprised if the price of oil went
above $5 a barrel.” They laughed.

In 1973, in the spring, I also said, in
making the same remarks, “Don’t be
surprised if there are political consid-
erations attached to the availability of
oil.” And again they did not believe,
they would not listen, and yet before
that year was out both events had oc-
curred.

How long does it take us to learn?
What will it take to make us believe
what the facts clearly indicate? Had
we taken the action that I suggested in
1975 we would not now be Paying $23
a barrel. The price would be somewhat
less, and I must speculate because no
one can know exactly how much less, but
let us face the fact that the price is
controlled by the marginal supply of oil.
Tt is not that we have massive shortages
or massive surpluses. It is because we
have a very small shortage or a very

surplus, with very large swings in
price because of a very small swing in
supply. We do not have to produce 8
million barrels of oil a day in addition
to what we now produce in order to hold
the prices down. If we produced 2 million
barrels of oil today more than we do the
price would be down, and that capability
was very clearly within our grasp in 1973,
1975, and in 1977, and is available to us
in 1979,

But, no, we will not seize that oppor-
tunity of increasing domestic production
of energy supplies. We insist instead in
the name of protecting the consumer in
creating the marginal shortage that
drives the price ever higher.

I do not blame my colleagues here or
elsewhere for wanting the price to be as
low as possible. We all share in that ob-
jective, but they choose artificial re-
straints on production and marketing as
@ way of keeping the price down, and it

cys

tomonocton

NaodornHaw ad

“ouocomoooeanrvreronmnns nmnaednoeraxr Fret mt—e op

la nu aoa ons

on tw adc

eno

ae es OF
must surely, inevitably, drive the price
up as it inhibits supply.

As I said earlier today, we hear de-
bate about the marginal effects of in-
creases in tax rates on production. Is
it 500,000 barrels a day? Is it 700,000
barrels a day? Is it 1.5 million? Is it 2
million? Is it 2.5 million barrels a day
over a period of time? Any one of those
figures is almost equal to or greater than
the impact of the loss of Iranian oil on
the market today in this country.

If the events of 1973 and 1974 did not
warn us, and we would not listen, what
does it take?

If the events of December 1978 and
January, February and March of 1979
did not convince us what will it take?
If we will not listen, if we will not learn,
if we will not believe, then the price of
oil will continue to go up, the consumers
will continue to take it on the chin, and
Politicians will continue to make
speeches, while Rome burns.

Mr. President, it is time for us to look
at some rather basic facts about the en-
ergy industry and where we go in this
country. My amendment, which is now
pending, which has suddenly brought this
Senate to a halt this afternoon, would
simply say that oil companies are entitled
to at least the same rate of return on
investment as other industries are.

If they are to be able to attract and
keep the capital that is necessary to pro-
duce energy, they must at least be able
to compete on an average-rate-of-return
basis, and I would not think anybody
wants to penalize the industry if, as a
matter of fact, the rate of return is no
greater than average.

My amendment would provide if the
rate of return on invested capital is
greater than average last year, this year
or next year, whenever it may be, that
they would then be taxed on that exces-
sive rate of return, greater than average,
at the rate of 90 percent, 90 percent of
everything that is above the average rate
of return, unless they put that money
back into producing more energy, and it
is that investment in the production of
more energy which alone, among actions
taken by Government, can increase sup-
ply, thereby holding the price to the con-
sumer down to the lowest possible point.

Mr. President, I add at my request a
memorandum which analyzed the earn-
ings of the 25 largest petroleum com-
panies during the 1968-78 period. The
second part of that memorandum details
the earnings of these 25 companies dur-
ing the first three-quarters of 1979, and
summarizes the reasons given by them
for the significant increase in their prof-
its during this period.

Table 1 in that summary provides fig-
ures of financial date for the 25 largest
domestic petroleum companies for the
years 1968 through 1978. From this table
it can be seen that during this 11-year
period the total revenues of these 25
companies rose from $61.2 billion to
$273.6 billion, an increase of 347.2 per-
cent over that 10-year period.

During the same period their net-
income-after-tax profit rose from $5.8
billion to $13.3 billion, an increase of
128.5 percent. In real terms, that is, ad-
justed for inflation, the profits of the 25

Oornms KF Ooetst eon wear retOoeth ero Om Kea ese Oe Or UCU COM et OO eer Hobtu cactdetd

muuevwvestwucht aco
petroleum companies rose 24.1 percent
over the 1968-78 period.

In 1968 the net income was 9.5 per-
cent of total revenue, and taxes were 14.3
percent of total revenue. By 1978 net in-
come has fallen to 4.8 percent of total
revenue and taxes to 13.7 percent of total
revenue.

During the 1968-78 period the 25
petroleum companies had a net income
totaling $98.4 billion. The taxes paid by
these companies totaled $240.7 billion
during this period, almost three times
the amount of their profits.

In 1968 the taxes paid by these com-
panies were equivalent to 1 times their
net income. By 1978 they paid taxes
equivalent to nearly three times their
net income.

Table 2 provides comparative data be-
tween the profitability of the petroleum
industry versus that for all manufactur-
ing firms over the 1968-1978 period.

The first column is the rate of return
on stockholders equity for the 25 largest
petroleum companies. The second col-
umn is the petroleum industry's rate of
return calculated by Citibank. The third
column is the rate of return calculated
by the Chase Manhattan Bank on a
sample of 27 major domestic and inter-
national petroleum companies.

As can be seen from this table, over
the 1968-78 period, the rate of return
for the petroleum industry did not differ
significantly from that for all manufac-
turing firms. The 25 petroleum com-
panies had an average rate of return of
12.9 percent; the Citibank petroleum
group rate of return averaged 13.7 per-
cent; the Chase group had an 11.7-
percent average rate of return. Dur-
ing the same period the rate of return
for all nonpetroleum manufacturing
firms averaged 13.3 percent. In 7 out of
the 11 years the average rate of return
of the 25 petroleum companies was less
than that for all nonpetroleum manu-
facturing. For comparisons between the
petroleum industry and specific other in-
dustries, there are tables at the back of
the memorandum that make those com-
parisons.

Tables 3 and 4 provide data on the
profitability of the 25 largest petroleum
companies during the first three quar-
ters of 1979.

Table 3 provides comparative data on
the 25 companies’ net income for the
third quarter of 1979, and the first three
quarters of 1979 versus their income dur-
ing the comparable periods in 1978.

From this table it can be seen that the
net income of these 25 companies rose
from $3.3 billion in the third quarter of
1978 to $6.4 billion in the third quarter
of 1979—a 95.1-percent increase.

During the first three quarters, the 25
companies’ net income rose from $9.4
billion in 1978 to $16.3 billion in 1979—a
74.2 percent increase.

During the third quarter of 1979, net
income was 6.9 percent of total revenues,
up from 4.5 percent during the same
period in 1978. Similarly, during the first
three quarters of 1979, net income as a
percent of total revenues was 6.0 per-
cent, up from 4.4 percent during the same
period in 1968. However, both of the
figures for 1979 were significantly lower
than the 1960 ligure Of 9.0 PEECeny Ar
income as a percent of revenues.

Table 4 provides the three standard
rate-of-return figures of the 25 largest
petroleum companies and 95 largest non-
petroleum companies for the first 9
months during 1978 and 1979.

From this table it can be seen that for
all three rates-of-return, during the first
9 months of 1978 the average petroleum
company rate-of-return was significantly
below that of the nonpetroleum com-
panies, and during the first 9 months of
1979 it was significantly higher. During
1978 the petroleum company average
rates were from 1.8 percent to 2.8 percent
below those for the nonpetroleum com-
panies; in 1979 they were from 1.7 per-
cent to 4.5 percent higher,

A review of the 25 companies’ third
quarter profits press releases indicates
that the majority of their increased prof-
itability can be attributed to foreign op-
erations. The API has calculated that 71
percent of the first 9-months profit in-
creases came from foreign operations.
Cited by the companies as the reasons
for the increase in foreign earnings are:
First, increased North Sea production;
second, higher profit margins; third, re-
duced currency translation losses; fourth,
beneficial changes in British tax policy;
fifth, a general increase in foreign chem-
ical subsidiary profits; sixth, higher re-
finery utilization rates; and seventh,
higher sales volumes. Domestic earnings
increases were mainly attributed by the
companies to increased Alaskan North
Slope production and higher domestic
oil and gas prices,

Let me parenthetically and briefly re-
turn to the fourth of those reasons—
beneficial changes in British tax policy—
and note that one of the major reasons
for that change in tax policies arises
out of a tax treaty which was approved

TABLE |—SU!

Year

1 Source for all data except net income in constant dollars: AF

Table 2 below provides comparative data
between the profitability of the petroleum
industry versus that for all manufacturing
firms over the 1968-1978 period.+

The first column is the rate of return on
stockholders equity for the twenty-five larg-
est petroleum companies. The second column
is the petroleum industry’s rate of return
calculated by Citibank.’ The third column
is the rate of return calculated by the Chase

Footnotes at end of article.
ind
d
t
9

mawmwirne

BY GAS BACIMVELS UL US VUUY, Ll Bae
oil companies massive increases in prof-
its after taxes in Great Britain as com-
pared to before that tax treaty; and now
the very Members of this body who voted
to approve that tax treaty cite those in-
creases as some kind of bad faith on the
part of the oil companies. The Mem-
bers of this body helped create those
profits.

Table 5 provides data on the capital
expenditures of the 10 largest petroleum
companies during the first three quarters
of 1979 and 1978. In 1979 these 10 com-
panies accounted for 70 percent of the
total net income of the top 25 petroleum
companies.

From this table it can be seen that
during the first three quarters of 1979
these 10 companies spent $15.3 billion
on capital expenditures, up 21.2 percent
from the amount spent during the same
period in 1978.

In the first three quarters of 1979

‘ capital expenditures were equivalent to

126.7 of the companies’ total net income,
down substantially from the 175.9 per-
cent figures for the same period in 1978.

Of the companies in this group, only
Standard Oil of Ohio had a decline in
capital expenditures during 1979. Cor-
porate officials of SOHIO explain that
this is the natural aftermath of their
massive TAPS pipeline expenditures,
plus their anticipation of making very
substantial expenditures in the Decem-
ber Beaufort Sea lease sale.

Table 6 compares the 1978 capital out-
lays of 19 petroleum companies with
their 1979 capital budget. From this
table it can be seen that only two of
these companies have a 1979 capital
budget which is less than their 1978
capital outlays. The total capital budget
of these companies for 1979 is $33.7 bil-

UMMARY FINANCIAL DATA FOR THE 25 LARGEST U.S. PETROLE!

{In millions of dollars}
Net income in
mer
Total revenue Net income year)?
$61, 178 $5, 805 $5, 805
67, 479 5, 636 5, 366
73, 499 5,797 5,239
81, 297 5, 847 5,028
88, 582 5, 784 4,776
110, 348 9, 468 7, 389
202 iis oot re
225, 540 11,641 7, 189
250, 402 090 7,085
273, 604 13, 266 7, 204

2 Adjusted by the implicit pr

Manhattan Bank on a sample of twenty-
seven major domestic and international pe-
troleum companies*

As can be seen from this table, over the
1968-1978 period, the rate of return for the
petroleum industry did not differ signifi-
cantly from that for all manufacturing firms.
The twenty-five petroleum companies had an
average rate of return of 12.9 percent; the
Citibank petroleum group rate of return
averaged 13.7 percent; the Chase petroleum
ee MP SOR PMEVSEY UVES WitEs L0t0
actual outlays of $27.3 billion.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the complete memorandum, in-
cluding the tables to which I have re-
ferred, be printed in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the material
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

MEMoRaNDUM

The first part of the memorandum provides
an overview of the earnings of the twenty-
five largest domestic petroleum companies
during the 1968-1978 period.

The second part of this memorandum de-
tails the earnings of these twenty-five com-
panies during the first three quarters of
1979 and summarizes the reasons given by
them for the significant increase in their
profits during this period.

1968-1978

Table 1 below provides sumary financial
data for the twenty-five largest domestic
petroleum companies for the years 1968
through 1978+

From this table it can be seen that during
this eleven year period the total revenues
of these twenty-five companies rose from
$61.2 billion to $273.6 billion—an increase
of 347.2 percent. During the same period
their net income (after tax profits) rose from
$5.8 billion to $13.3 billion—an increase of
128.5 percent. In real terms (i.e., adjusted
for inflation) the profits of the twenty-five
petroleum companies rose 24.1 percent over
the 1968-1978 period.*

In 1968 net income was 9.5 percent of
total revenue and taxes were 14.3 percent of
total revenue. By 1978 net income had fallen
to 4.8 percent of total revenue and taxes to
13.7 percent of total revenues.

During the 1968-1978 period these 25 pe-
troleum companies had a net income totaling
$98.4 billion; the taxes paid by these com-
panies totalled $240.7 billion during this
period. In 1968 the taxes paid by these com-
panies were equivalent to one and one-half
times their net income. In 1978 they paid
taxes equivelent to nearly three times their
net income?

ILEUM COMPANIES!

Net income as Taxes as a percent of—
@ percent of — A$
Taxes total revenues =Total revenue Net income
72 9.5 14,3 151.
3 591 8.4 4.2 170. 2
10, 957 7.9 14.9 189. (
13, 148 7.2 16.2 224. §
14, 782 6.5 16.7 255.
19, 326 8.6 5 204, |
30, 829 6.8 1.9 234.
31, 788 49 16.7 321.1
29, 846 5.2 13.2 256. 4
34, 151 4.8 13.6 282. :
, 4.8 13.7 282. 4

| price deflator for GNP.

y-
e-

1e

16
i-

5.

in
1e
mn
m

group had a 11.7 percent average rate of
return. During the same period the rate of
return for all nonpetroleum manufacturing
firms averaged 13.3 percent. In seven out of
the eleven years the average rate of return
of the 25 petroleum companies was less than
that for all non-petroleum manufacturing.
For comparisons between the petroleum in-
dustry and specific other industries, please
see the tables at the back of this memoran-
dum.
ee ne) ee ee ee eS ee ee ie eee

EQUITY OIL COMPANIES AND TOTAL MANUFACTURING

co
Ea
Citibank — 'at
25 total Al
manufac. f@
oleum Citibank turing ©
compa- petroleum petroleum (excluding °°
Year nies? group? group? «
12.6 13.1 7 13.4
3 1.9 1.0 12.6
10.9 1.0 10.4 9.8
10.4 2 10.7 10.7
9.8 10.8 9.7 125 P
15.0 15.6 15.5 7k
18.6 19.6 19.2 13.9 t
12.8 13.9 12.8 12.2
14.0 4.8 13.8 15.0
13.4 i 13.8 1.2 t
13.6 4.3 413.2 16.5 q
Average... 9129 13.7 17 13.3 :

TABLE II!,—NET INCOME OF

Quarter ending Sept. 30 Ja
Change

1979 1978
$119.2 $30.6 289.5 $38
37.9 4.9 673.5 [
$2.9 145.8 = —63.7 4
320.4 220.5 45.3 8
86.1 52.6 63.7 2
247.1 105.8 133.6 63
37.1 29.6 25.3 i
1,145.0 525.0 118,10 2,93
WAL 96.2 81.0 cy
416.0 211.0 97.2 9
42.6 34.2 24.6 yy
79.7 90.5 57.8 2
595.0 258.0 130.6 1,43
28.6 10.9 162.4 €
186.1 19.3 864.2 E

1 Does not apply due to loss during 1978,

‘Table 4 below provides the three standard ~
rate-of-return figures of the 25 largest petro-

From this table it can be seen that for
all three rates-of-return, during the first
nine months of 1978 the average petroleum
company rate-of-return was significantly
below that of the nonpetroleum companies,
and during the first nine months of 1979 it
was significantly higher. During 1978 the
petroleum company average rates were from
1.8 percent to 2.8 percent below those for the
nonpetroleum companies; in 1979 they were
from 1.7 percent to 4.5 percent higher.

o

> cxununno

TABLE 4.—PROFITABILITY MEASURES OF 25 LEADING U.S,
PETROLEUM COMPANIES FOR THE 1ST 3 QUARTERS OF =
19791

Net income percent of—

Stockholders’ Total capital
equity? — employed? Total assets 2

9mo Imo 9mo 9mo 9mo 9 mo
1979 1978 1979 1978 1979 1978

4

BE
SUA RANOVOUNGMEO UE
OMA
ponent e
00S 0}
NOMOOm

iat

Mariage pS Fo:

peg ne anes =m
BowI HM Ume@oUWanUas

BS inex eX o,

NVAeBNNoToH—
aie Co ne nang Ni A ae ee

SRBSEERE SSS!
DaNaunennce

POU ROVRONWRONWES
esi Coed tetera ela Rb
BURL RSSSERSHSHS
co as eum ower

wh
fog
BESS.
2Se4
Sow
fe Rte en ele a ee oe ea eee:
2 Source: API. Note: these rate of return calculations may not
salbigireed exactly to those made by the individual companies.
Each company may have a slightly different method for caicu-
asin. its rate of return. In order to obtain consistency, the
Pt employed a — am method for Sm its rate of
reat calculations. . for some com the API
calculated rate-of- ree may, be slightly differs ferent than the

pompen calculated figure.
2 Net income as a percent of beginning of year stockholder’s

‘ OP aeinary.

FIRST THREE QUARTERS OF 1979

Tables 3 and 4 below provide data on the
profitability of the twenty-five largest petro-
leum companies during the first three quar-
ters of 1979.

‘Table 3 below provides comparative data on
the 25 companies’ net income for the third
quarter of 1979, and the first three
of 1979 versus their income during the com-
parable periods in 1978.

&
se
9

 wreonernre weo

(

F 25 LEADING U.S. PETROLEUM COMPANIES, 3RD QUARTER ANI

[Dollar amounts in millions}

January to September
Change
1979 1978 (percent)
350.3 $97.3 260.0
65.5 12.0 445.8
475.5 204.8 132.2
822.9 581.8 41.4
241.3 148.3 62.7
624.7 296.1 Lo
119.6 93.0 28.6
930.0 1,910.0 53:4
421.8 228.5 84.6
956.0 548.0 74.5
119.6 78.2 77.8
269.0 151.3 77.8
436.0 792.0 81.3
65.6 29.2 124.7
374.8 —16.6 ©

Net income as a percent of —

Stockholders’ Total capital
equity? employed? Total assets ?

9mo 9mo Imo 9mo 9mo 9mo
1979 1978 1979 1978 1979 1978

Standard Oil of Cali-
forni

Fpsanes
Sun mRwe
peRSene
Naweoan
Flatetateteaed
wounwoo

15.5 93 99 62
15.9 128 121 82 80

stockholders’ equity, capital
# Does not apply due to loss.
Source: API.

SOURCES OF INCREASED PROFITS

A review of the 25 companies’ third quar-
ter profits press releases indicates that the
majority of their increased profitability can
be attributed to foreign operations. The API
has calculated that 71 percent of the first
nine-months profit increases came from for-
eign operations. Cited by the companies as
the reasons for the increase in foreign earn-
ings are: 1) increased North Sea production;
2) higher profit margins; 3) reduced cur-
rency translation losses; 4) beneficial
changes in British tax policy; 5) a general
increase in foreign chemical subsidiary prof-
its; 6) higher refinery utilization rates; and
7) higher sales volumes. Domestic
increases were mainly attributed by the
companies to increased Alaskan North Slope
production and higher domestic oil and gas
prices.

[2 erent adcm e700 Smoot erseoe®@

eanuneeadnwm i
net income of these 25 companies rose from
$3.3 billion in the third quarter of 1978 to
$6.4 billion in the third quarter of 19’
95.1 percent increase.

During the first three quarters, the 25
companies’ net income rose from $9.4 bil-
lion in 1978 to $16.3 billion in 1979—a 74.2
percent increase.

During the third quarter of 1979, net in-
come was 6.9 percent of total revenues, up
from 4.5 percent during the same period in
1978. Similarly, during the first three quar-
ters of 1979, net income as a percent of total
revenues was 6.0 percent, up from 44 per-
cent during the same period in 1968. How-
ever, both of the figures for 1979 were signif-
icantly lower than the 1968 figure of 9.5
percent net income as a percent of revenues.
(see table 1)

i

AND 1ST 9 MO OF 1979

Quarter ending Sept. 30 January to September
Change Chan;
1979 1978 (percent) 1979 1978
61.2 $30.7 $99.3 $165.4 $85.1
93.0 118.8 62.5 584.6 438.6
93.3 248.9 17.8 794.4 621.3
0 274.0 0.2 1, 773.0
33.8 292.0 48.6 = 1,184.1 859.7
66.2 125.7 191.3 735.1 285.7
74.3 105.4 65.4 453.1 290.8
63.7 24.9 155.8 152.6 70.3
312.2 197.1 210.6 1,284.6 524.2
106.0 92.6 14.5 384.3 258.5
47.5, 1 309.8 | 9,361.1
59.9 358.0 214, 105.7
6.9 gS [et cee ay 6.0 As

‘Table 5 below provides data on the capital

expenditures of the ten largest petroleum
companies during the first three
of 1979 and 1978. In 1979 these ten compa-
nies accounted for 75 percent of the total net
income of the top twenty-five petroleum
companies.
From this table it can be seen that during
the first three quarters of 1979 these ten
companies spent $15.3 billion on capital ex-
penditures, up 21.2 percent from the amount
spent during the same period in 1978.

In the first three quarters of 1979 capital
expenditures were equivalent to 126.7 of the
companies’ total net income, down substan-
tially from the 175.9 percent figures for the
same period in 1978.

Of the companies in this group, only
Standard Oil of Ohio had a decline in capi-
tal expenditures during 1979. Corporate offi-
cials of SOHIO explain that this is the natu-
ral aftermath of their massive TAPS pipeline
expenditures, plus their anticipation of mak-
ing very substantial expenditures in the De-
cember Beaufort Sea lease sale.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES OF THE 10 LARGEST PETROLEUM
COMPANIES
[Figures in millions}

ae 126.7 175.9...

NET INCOME AS A PERCENT OF NET WORT

Industrial groups 1962 1963 IS

Autos and trucks__
Drugs and medicine.
metics.

Other stone and clay products.

SEESERRRE

Bemest

irae i
an S
Palnt allied products 1 Xi 14

Building, heating, plumbing equipment__
ther fod pod
Other metal prod:
Brewi

1 Revised.
2 Preliminary.

eeBeEBeoe
to de ne OID ONM OOO mI ODE
4

See eSSeserenePpeRSEENsss
WOOR DH QOONWHNROOMWMOMONUNUDNOS &

1 bY
7. 9

7. uu

+ $5, 9
10. 12.
8. 10,
10. 12

Table six below compares the 1978 capital :
outlays of nineteen petroleum companies |
with their 1979 capital budget. From this <
table it can be seen that only two of these |
companies have a 1979 capital budget which
is less than their 1978 capital outlays. The |
total capital budget of these companies for !
1979 is $33.7 billion, up 23.2 percent over
their 1978 actual outlays of $27.3 billion.

TABLE 6.—1979 CAPITAL BUDGET VERSUS 1978 CAPITAL

:

4

7

OUTLAYS ]
[In millions of dollars} :
1979 capital f
bud, ]

ferred | 2

SSLISSSSSSSSBESSSSS | z

2
z

+The 25 companies are the largest do-
mestic petroleum companies in terms of s

assets. In alphabetical order they are: Ame-
rada Hess, American Petrofina, Ashland Oil,

Atlantic Richfield, Clark Oil (1967-1977),
Cities Service, Conoco, Diamond Shamrock, !
Exxon, Getty, Gulf, Kerr-McGee, Marathon, |
Mobil, Murphy, Occidental, Pennzoil, Phil-
lips, Shell, Standard Oil of California, Stand-
ard Oil of Indiana, Standard Oil of Ohio,

Sun, Superior (1978) Texaco, and Union.
* Adjusted by the implicit price deflator

for GNP.

*Source for all data except net income in
constant dollars.

‘The most commonly cited Profitability

ee aes

CXXV——2139—Part 26
RTH: PETROLEUM, OTHER SELECTED INDUSTRY GROUPS, TOTAL

1964 861965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971

9 234 17.8 120 166 138 5.8 15.0
8 221 22.5 203 198 17.7 188 19.0
6 168 17.9 194 189 186 187 19.3
9 327 i 17.8 190 17.4 139 125
1° 335. 127, HI 19 (122 90 IL)
3 148 #167 154 141 130 101 10.7
0 134 #140 4 126 130 8&9 10.4
7 156 106 «614A 17, ILA 288 87
9 #150 150 147 140 135 119 121
9 15.4 157 134 139 11.4 6.7 6.3
7 2L1 °220 9233 27 25 27 231
1.6 3.9 9.2 7.3 89 9.3 7.0 87
9 ILS 110 94 141 5.2 102 112
3 15 118 95 107 10.3 74 5.6
4 Wl 43 U6 WS 10.2 6.2 8.1
Ls ILS) 139 «187 «6134 7.9 M0 128
9 14.4 169 147 135 129 105 10.3
5 Ws 128 108 127 Id 76 98
10 16.9) «617.9 15.40 149 4B 125 1
-6 19 126 128 13.1 1.90 101.2
2 106 120 W3 113 8.5 7.0 8.4
Z 426; 123, 123: 12.7 122 12.8 12.3
4 29 M1 12.8 133 125 10.4 8.9
1 Mad 134 122 13.2 132 160 15.8
2 125 #126 %I68 W7 WS 120 12.6
.0 18 6157 4 ALD 125 «(10.6 5.0
hh 13055143 19 13 124 84 119
2 9.6 9.4 74 85 74 46 4.6
7 #139 142 126 133 124 108 108
4 22 139 162 15.0 126 8.5 8.5
1 232.137 182 Wl) 125° ALT 11.7

Source: First National City Bank.

measure is the rate of return on stockholder’s
equity. Rates of return are also commonly
calculated on the basis of total assets and
total capital employed (e.g., see table 4) !

® The Citibank petroleum group consists of t
approximately 100 of the largest petroleum |
firms.

©The Chase group consists of: Amerada 1
Hess, Ashland, ARCO, British Petroleum,
Champlin, Cities Service, Clark Oll, Com- 1!
pagnie Francaise des Petroles, Continental, 1
Exxon, Getty, Gulf, Louisiana Land and Ex- !
ploration, Marathon, Mobil, Murphy, Petro-
fina, Societe Anonyme Phillips, Royal Dutch/ 1}
Shell, Standard of California, Standard of
Indiana, Standard of Ohio, Sun, Superior,
Texaco, Tosco, and Union.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, the
major oil companies have been releasing
their third-quarter earnings figures, and
oil company earnings are definitely up.
However, the size of any industry’s earn-
ings by itself provides little information,
beyond the fact that the industry is large
or small.

A large industry, in general, will have
larger earnings in terms of absolute dol-
lars than a small industry.

To put earnings into perspective, they
should be compared to other industries
and to other time periods.

Mr. President, Texaco Oil Co. has pre-
pared a paper making comparisons of
profitability as a return on investment.

Mr, President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that that entire memorandum be
printed in the Recorp at this point.

There being no objection, the memo-
randum was ordered to be printed in the
Recorp, as follows:

PETROLEUM INDUSTRY EARNINGS—
A Comparison

Major oil companies have been releasing
their third-quarter earnings figures. Oil
company earnings are up. However the size
of any industry's earnings, by itself, pro-
vides little information beyond the fact that
the industry fs large or small. A large indus-
try, in general, will have larger earnings in

Pe ee A

euprwraanmwn

OuctwUsdeepbeorcoe

>Unbhe ®o
(AL MANUFACTURING, AND TOTAL MINING

nM «61972-1973 1974 11975 197621977 31978

OO 2 WS eI 5.7 183 20.8 17.2
0 198 214 210 204 20.0 19.2 21.5
3 202 202 17.9 180 183 19.7 20.8
5 138 167 163 159 174 188 225
1 125 129 106 98 17.3 IL5 13.6
7 338.6 = 163 2. 127 162° «(16.7 18.0

135 144 104 96 153 164 17.8

1.30 15.20 «188 «15.8 «161 | 14.3 15.0
1 1.4 15.6 5.3 62 17.4 19.4 15.7
3 £9 “1.7. B38 UF 126 1724 19.7
1 222 220 19.0 206 224 223 22.8
7 eS Is 91 82 106 122 12.5
2 #126 208 159 200 155 160 19.7
6 88 M46 183 127 148 141 14.0
1 106 103 117 90 109 &1 8.1
8 IL8 95 120 37.0 162 17.8 20.1
3 106 127 122 WE 136 15.0 17.0
8 U6 115 (97 7.8 7.5 10.0 6.2
6 138 64 145 129 13.9 168 18.4
2 108 156 196 139 148 140 14.3
4 121 Ww6 0 -14.20 «1230 21.0 20.4 21.8
3 42 48 16 1) 16.1 16.3 16.5
9 104 129 40 130 150 148 13.6
8 148 13.1 123° 103 5 105 IL4
6 128 130 132 143 147 149 15.6
0 71 Ww2 15.1 14 85 8.0 10.2
9 125 1320 8.2 7.0 9.8 8.5 9.6
6 6.1 98 171 10,0 8.7 4.4 9.9.
8 1213 4.9 #152 126 150 149 15.6
5 107 166 265 161 16.5 8.5 3.3
7 48 127 125 130 47 15.0 15.2

F

terms of absolute dollars than a small in-
dustry.

To put earnings into perspective, they
should be compared to other industries and
to other time periods. The purpose of this
paper is to present these comparisons.

I. Comparison of Profitability (Return on
Investment).

Profitability, or rate of return on invest-
ment, is most commonly calculated accord-
ing to three methods: return on total stock-
holders’ equity, on total capital employed
and on total assets. All three will be used
here.

1. The most frequently used measure of
profitability is return on stockholders’
equity. The rate of return on stockholders’
equity is the net income after taxes divided
by the owners’—the stockholders'—invest-
ment. (Equivalent terms sometimes used are
return on equity, return on net worth and
return on net assets.)

'The return on stockholders’ equity for the
25 oll companies trailed investment returns
in other U.S. industries during the first nine
months of 1978. The oil companies’ ratio was
13.3 percent last year compared with 16.1
percent for the non-oil companies. In the
current year’s nine-month period, the oil
companies’ ratio rose above that of the lead-
ing non-oil companies. The return on stock-
holders’ equity for the 25 oil companies was
21.3 percent compared with 16.8 percent for
the 77 leading non-oil companies.

2. Net income as a percent of total capital
employed (stockholders’ equity plus long-
term debt) is another common measure. This
is usually expressed as return on total capital
employed. Again, oil companies lagged behind
non-oil companies for the 1978 nine months
and rose above them for the 1979 period. In
1978, the return on total capital employed
was 9.3 percent for the oil companies and 12.3
percent for the non-oil companies. In 1979,
the figures were 15.5 percent for the oil com-
panies and 12.8 percent for the non-oil
companies.

3. A third yardstick for return on invest-
ment is return on total assets—profits as
@ percent of all of the resources available
to a company. The ratios for the first nine
months of 1978 were 6.2 percent for oil com-
panies and 8.2 percent for non-oll companies.
Again, oil companies trailed leading firms in
other industries. For the first three quarters
of 1979, the oil companies’ figure was 9.9 -per-
cent and the non-oll companies’ was 8.3 per-
cent. Again, oil companies surged ahead of
other U.S. industry.

4. Comparison of Profitability Over Time.

Whatever yardstick is used, the essential
point is how oil companies have been doing
compared with non-oill companies over an
extended period of time. Have their earnings
been out of line, compared with U.S. non-oil
companies? Have they been far ahead of the
pack, running wild?

The profitability figures cited show that
oll companies were behind the pack the first
three quarters of 1978 and are ahead of it
the first three quarters of 1979. It Is also
important to look back over the last decade.
An important point which does not always
surface in earnings discussions is that the
overall record of the oil companies is about
the same as the record of non-oil companies
in the U.S—not only for the last 10 years,
but for any other selected decade.

Over the last decade, the oil industry's
return on total stockholders’ equity averaged
13.9 percent compared with 13.7 percent for
total manufacturing—and this includes the
abnormal years 1973 and 1974 when oil com-
panies’ rate of return rose sharply. The oil
industry's rate of return was below that of
total U.S. manufacturing in five of the ten
years. And oil companies were below non-oil
companies in each of the last three years.

Profitability in terms of return on total
assets of the oil companies is also generally
comparable with that of other mining and
manufacturing industries.

II, Comparison of Profit Margins.

In addition to return on investment, an-
other way to compare profits is to use the
profit margin, which is net income (profits)
as a percent of total revenue (sales plus
other revenue).

Despite the relatively larger increase in
the 25 leading oll companies’ profits for the
first three quarters of 1979, their profit
margins were only a little above those of
leading non-oil companies, In the January—
September 1979 period, the oil companies’ net
income averaged 6.1 cents of each dollar of
revenue and the non-oil companies’ was 5.5
cents. In the prior year’s nine-month pe-
riod, the oil companies’ net income was 4.4
cents per dollar of revenue as against 5.6
cents for the non-oll companies.

IM. Quarter-to-Quarter Dollar Compari-
son.

Based on third-quarter reports, earnings of
the 25 leading U.S. oil companies in the third
quarter of 1979 totaled nearly $6.8 billion.
This is more than double the earnings of
$3.3 billion for these companies in the third
quarter of 1978. However, the oil companies
experienced slow growth in 1978. (Consider
what percentages will show in future years
for automobile industry comparisons. The
General Motors Corporation plunged 96 per-
cent in the third quarter, the Ford Motor
Company 65 percent and the Chrysler Corpo-
ration had a $460 million deficit. Should
these companies have even reasonable prof-
its in the third quarter of 1980, percentage
increases would appear overwhelming.) Com-
pared to the 77 leading non-oll companies,
the oil companies did much better than the
non-oil companies on a third-quarter-to-
third-quarter comparison basis.

IV. First Nine Months Dollar Comparison.

For the first nine months of 1979, the
25 oil companies’ earnings were $16.3 billion,
74 percent above the $9.4 billion recorded
in the comparable 1978 period. These nine-
month earnings rose more steeply than those
of leading companies in other industries.
Again, most oil companies did not have a
good year in 1978. Third-quarter releases
from 77 of the leading 100 non-oil indus-
trial companies show earnings rising by 14.1

percent between the first nine months of
1978 and the first nine months of 1979.

V. Costs and Prices Compared.

U.S. oil companies have no control over
the world market price of crude oil, which
has risen by almost 60 percent between De-
cember 31, 1978 and October 1, 1979, Oil
companies buy oil at this price and at even
higher prices on the open market (pub-
lished indications are that the price of spot
crude is now over $40 a barrel). Companies
also have been forced to purchase large
volumes of high-priced petroleum products
on the open market to assure customers of
receiving roughly the same volumes of prod-
uct as they received last year. The higher
prices are passed on to the consumer of
petroleum products. This is one of the
reasons that home heating oil prices, for
example, have increased by so much.

" Refiners have other costs, of course, and
these costs are escalating with inflation. Re-
finers are paying more for labor, electricity,
Pipes, catalysts, chemicals and transporta-

tion. Maintenance, inventory storage and
marketing costs are up. The cost of borrow-
ing money also is higher.

Refiners are also paying more for the fuel
they use in refinery processing. And when
there are disruptions in supply and changes
in supply sources, as there have been as a
result of Iran, they must pay more to change
their equipment so that they can refine the
different types of crude oil they receive.
‘These less desirable crudes yield less gasoline
and heating oil and cost more to produce.

Based on limited information so far avail-
able, petroleum profits per gallon of petro-
leum product sold during the first nine
months of 1979 averaged about 3.5 cents in
the U.S. and about 4.0 cents worldwide.

VI. Profit Growth Compared by Source.

The principal source of industry earnings
growth has been foreign operations. Ol com-
pany earnings in the U.S. compared with
their earnings abroad show that domestic
operations are relatively less profitable this
year. The fluctuations, up and down, in
earnings from quarter-to-quarter and year-
to-year are greater abroad than in the U.S.
Overseas earnings dropped more in the past
and have grown more sharply recently.
Exxon, for example, reported that through
the first nine months of 1979 its domestic
refining and marketing profits were 17 per-
cent lower than for the comparable 1978
period. Detailed information for 12 firms,
representing more than two-thirds of the
25 companies’ third quarter earnings, in-
dicated that nearly 80 percent of profit
growth in the third quarter of 1979 was de-
rived from foreign operations.

Business results abroad benefited from in-
creased production in the North Sea and else-
where, higher sales volumes in Europe, price
policies abroad that permit faster recovery
of increased raw material and other costs,
improved utilization of foreign refining and
chemical capacity as well as other special
factors.

VII. Comparison of Profits and Capital
Expenditures.

Where do the profits of oil companies go?
Do they go into a sock? Do they go into de-
partment stores and other businesses un-
related to energy?

They do not go into a sock. Worldwide ex-
penditures by oi] companies for exploration
and production of new oil and natural gas
and other energy greatly exceed their profits.
On the basis of information available to date,
capital and exploration expenditures in the
first nine months of 1979 substantially ex-
ceeded net income for the period. The major
portion of these expenditures were in the
U.S., principally for exploratior® and produc-
tion. Capital and exploration expenditures in
the U.S. alone were equal to the worldwide
”

I AVe Re. ee te

"

@,@eeoPpar=

Pore

Ss
-
hn
c
s
a
3.
t
y.
h
c
8
5,
e
-
it

m

profits of these companies, and 63 percent o:
worldwide earnings were expended for do-
mestic exploration and production.

They do not go into businesses unrelated
to energy. During the 1968-77 period, accord
ing to Chase Manhattan Bank data, less than
six percent of the total capital expenditures
by the 27 leading ofl companies were made in
non-oil businesses. Some went into other en-

ergy resources. (Because of the close relation-
ship to energy, petrochemical capital ex-

tures have been included in these
calculations.)

One hears a great deal about department
stores, circuses and hotels. For the 16 leading
oil companies, one department store chain
has been acquired, no circuses have been

purchased and it is stretching a point to say
hotels have been bought.

Given the pummeling of the oil industry
in the political arena, it is not surprising
that some responsible managers have found
it desirable to diversify their stockholders’
risks. But the non-oil diversification should
be kept in perspective: less than 6 percent of
the billions of dollars expended annually on
petroleum has been for non-oil activity.

CONCLUSION

When oil company earnings are compared,
in various different ways, to the earnings of
other industries, they are not out of line.
Over any extended historical period, the oil
industry’s profitability has been about the
same as for all industry.

Additionally, these earnings are not usu-
ally held as idle balances. Taxes are paid
out of earnings. Earnings are distributed in
the form of dividends to stockholders. And,
most importantly for the U.S., earnings are
used to expand business. In the case of the
oil industry, increased earnings can be used
to search for more energy. To expand our
production of domestic energy, at least in
part from new sources, will require large out-
lays in the future.

The U.S. economy is not merely a profit
system—it is a profit and loss system. Profits
are a signal and an incentive and an indis-
pensable source of economic growth.

Finally, one might consider the Citibank
analysis of industries which were in the top
quartile in 1978 in return on net worth, com-
pared with the oil industry’s 14.3 percent;
soft drinks (22.8 percent); office equipment,
computers (22.5 percent); building, heating,
plumbing equipment (21.8 percent); drugs
and medicines (21.5 percent); soaps, cos-
metics (20.8 percent); baking (20.1 percent);
tobacco products (19.8 percent); lumber and
wood products (19.7 percent); cement (19.7
percent); aerospace (19.7 percent); and in-
struments, photographic goods, etc. (19.1
percent). It can be argued that it is as im-
portant to the nation to attract capital into
the energy business as to these other indus-
tries.

BASIC COMPARISON OF IST 9 MONTHS’ EARNINGS, 1979

ra) (esing 77 leading

oil
companies companies

rer
BE

BP oe oH
be Ne wa we

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, a pres-
entation was made by Mr. Ronald M.
Freeman and Dr. E. Anthony Copp of
Salomon Brothers before the Senate
Subcommittee on Energy and Founda-
tions which clearly shows that the oil
industry is not “awash with cash.”

The testimony, based on the financial
data of 33 oil companies, shows that
while the companies’ net income in-
creased by $7.5 billion between 1971 and
1978, their capital expenditures increased
by $15.5 billion, or two times more than
net income. In 1978, the oil industry in-
vested $1.87 for every dollar of net in-
come received.

While capital expenditures of the 33
oil companies rose by $15.5 billion, and
earnings rose by $7.5 billion, dividends
rose by $2.4 billion. The increase in divi-
dends, which amounted to 72.8 percent
over the period, was extremely modest
considering that the Consumer Price In-
dex increased by 61.1 percent. In other
words, stockholders received only a very
small “real” increase in dividends, de-
spite the reinvestment by the com-
panies of about $146 billion of their
money in the form of capital expendi-
tures.

With dividends increasing less rapidly
than income, the ratio of dividends to
income of the 33 oil companies declined
from 53.5 percent in 1971 to 41.9 percent
in 1978. The ratio for petroleum was
close to that for all corporations of 41.7
percent in 1978. The payment ratio for
all manufacturing companies was 35.6
percent in 1978. The payout ratio for
manufacturing companies tends to fall
during a cyclical upswing in profits as
dividend increases tend to lag earnings
increases.

Despite the relatively modest increase
in dividends, retained cash flow—that is,
earnings, depreciation, depletion, and
amortization less dividend payments—
for the 33 companies has also failed to
keep pace with sharply rising invest-
ment expenditures,

Between 1971 and 1978, retained cash
flow increased only $14.8 billion com-
pared to the $15.5 billion rise in capital
expenditures. Except for 1973, retained
cash flow was less than capital expendi-
tures in each year during this period;
in 1978, retained cash flow was $23.9 bil-
lion versus capital expenditures totaling
$25.7 billion.

In order to finance this deficit of cap-
ital expenditures relative to retained
cash flow, to pay back maturing long-
term debt and to maintain working cap-
ital at acceptable levels, the 33 oil com-
panies raised $46.3 billion during the
1971-78 period by the issuance of long-
term debt and new equity. This heavy
dependence on external funds for nor-
mal business purposes is not consistent
with the “awash with cash” characteri-
zation that has recently been applied to
the oil industry.

With borrowing up, long-term debt
as a percent of capitalization for the 33
oil companies increased from 24.7 per-
cent in 1971 to 27.7 percent in 1978.

Oil industry earnings are clearly not
out of line with those in other industries.
Data compiled by Citibank show that
rate of return on net worth—sharehold-
ers’ equity—was 14.3 percent for the

Seyret K¥an oom

Ppa ema

Bete
petroleum industry in 1978, versus 15.9
percent for all manufacturing indus-
tries.

The PRESIDING OFFICER, The 30
minutes of the Senator from Idaho has
expired.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, will the
Senator from West Virginia (Mr, RoserT
C. Byrp) make similar arrangements so
that the Senator from Idaho might have
10 additional minutes?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I will be glad to, under the precise, same
conditions.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. McCLURE. I thank the Senator
from West Virginia.

Petroleum’s rate of return has been
below the average for all manufacturing
in each of the past 3 years.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the table that accompanies
that statement be printed in the Recorp
at this point.

There being no objection, the table
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

CASH FLOW, CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND DIVIDENDS—33
OIL COMPANIES

[Dollar amounts in millions}

Net income... $6,218 $13,720 $7,502 120.6
Capital expend 10,175 "25,654 15,479 152.1
Cash dividend 3,32 5,744 2,419 72.8
Retained cash flow 91093 23,900 24,80/ 162.8
Dividends/net income... 53.5 41.9

L-T debtjcapitalization.- 24.7

1 Net income plus depreciation, depletion, and amortization,
less dividends.

Source: Salomon Bros,

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I would
like to call the attention of the Senate
to an article that appeared in the Wash-
ington Post on October 25, 1979, in a
column by Joseph Kraft entitled ‘““Who
Profits from Profits?”

I will only quote only the last para-
graph of that article because, Mr. Kraft,
after detailing some of the arguments,
concluded in this fashion:

This country has already done itself grave
damage by bad-mouthing its steel industry,
its nuclear power companies and its airplane
manufacturers. It cannot afford to act as
though all business is bad, big business worse
and international big business still worse.
Neither can it afford a president whose po-
litical stock depends on cultivating these
pernicious illusions.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the entire column of Joseph
Kraft that I made reference to be printed
in the Recorp at this point.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

Wo Prorirs From Prortrs?
(By Joseph Kraft)

“Prices are up, profits are up, and the oil
companies want more. But it is not fair to
the American people that they should have
more.”

At first that sounded just great. Sure-fire,
right-on stuff. The stuff out of which leader-

a ee SA

aeauw

pew cone

t
ti

ecu

pone
ship is made. Jimmy Carter standing up to
the big, bad oil giants and their obscene
profits.

But think a minute, Are the oil companies
truly unfair to the American people? If not,
why say so? And what is the impact of the
charge on that overriding domestic and for-
eign priority—the reindustrialization of
America?

Exxon, the biggest of the oil companies,
provides the best test. Its profits for the third
quarter of this year amounted to a record
$1.1 billion. That, measured against the third
quarter of 1978, represented an increase of
about 120 percent.

But third-quarter earnings in 1978 were
abnormally low—lower than at any time
since the second quarter in 1973. Moreover,
special considerations—a change in the Brit-
ish tax laws and currency fluctuations—ac-
counted for over @ quarter of the gains.

Only about a third of all the operating
profits came from the United States, which
has relatively tight price control compared
with the rest of the world. Earnings on in-
vestment stood with much of American in-
dustry—at about 18 percent.

Those numbers, to be sure, do not justify
going into mourning for poor little Exxon.
But the implication that Exxon works to the
disadvantage of this country looks weak in-
deed. On the contrary, the evidence is that
Exxon, like most international companies,
gives most of the breaks to its home base.
The United States, in other words, tends to
benefit from the*major oil companies.

Political reasons for knocking the com-
panies abound all the same. There has been
@ big recent rise in the price of home heat-
ing oil and gasoline. More increases are
bound to come. The country is mad and apt
to get madder. At least a portion of the blame
rests on the actions of the Carter administra-_
tion. So the president needs a scapegoat on
which to foist responsibility. In this popu-
list country, at a moment when all authority
is suspect, the dompanies are the best one
around.

The more soas Carter now has to prove his
leadership capacities. One measure is the fate
of a proposed windfall profits tax on the oll
companies, which is now before the Senate.

A stiff tax has already been approved in
the Finance Committee. It will surely be
made stiffer by the full Senate, and in the
conference with the House. By hitting out at
the oil companies now, the president puts
himself in position to claim credit for some-
thing bound to happen anyhow, He bets on
a sure thing,

Only the innocent or the disingenuous can
take offense at such tactics. Seeming to soak
the rich is the essence of good politics in this
populist country. But we ought to be clear
about the cost of populist politics.

The starting point for counting the cost is
the plight of what I have called Big America.
‘The major industrial producers—the makers
of steel, chemicals, autos, rubber, ships and
many other such items—are in trouble.

They are subject to severe regulation by
what I have called Little America—those pri-
marily interested in fair employment, the
environment and the consumer. They are
also being severely challenged by competing
firms in Japan, West Germany and other
countries.

But this country cannot casually abandon
industry for a service economy. Defense, for
one thing, is at stake. For another, there is
the matter of jobs—especially jobs for mi-
norities in hard-pressed urban centers. So
the health of the country is, in the long run,
bound uv with the revitalization of industry.

The reindustrialization of America, unfor-
tunately, is not going to be established by
corner banks, family farms or even medium-
sized industry. It will take General Motors
to stand up to Volkswagen, an IBM to match
Toshiba, an Alcoa to deal with Pechiney.

This country has already done itself grave
damage by bad-mouthing its steel industry,
its nuclear power companies and its airplane
manufacturers. It cannot afford to act as
though all business is bad, big business
worse and international big business still
worse. Neither can it afford a president whose
political stock depends on cultivating these
pernicious illusions.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I would
also ask unanimous consent that an
article in the New York Times on Octo-
ber 26, 1979, entitled “How To Curb
OPEC’s Power” be printed in the Recorp
at this point.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

How To Curs OPEC’s POWER

The problem of restraining the power of
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries urgently demands a solution. In-
stead of growing feeble with time and break-
ing down, as some free-market economists
had predicted, the oil cartel appears to have
learned how to exploit its monopoly ex-
porting position for all it is worth. Instead
of waiting for “accidents,” such as the Arab-
Israeli war on the Iranian Revolution, to
disrupt supply and put intense pressure on
the price of ofl, nation after nation in
OPEC has learned to be careful to restrain
supply to keep prices and earnings rising.

Thus, with better communication among
its members and better understanding of
how to manipulate price by controlling sup-
ply, OPEC looks stronger than ever—and
the West weaker.

Formerly, Saudi Arabia, as the largest
producer, with the greatest reserves and the
least need for extra income in the short run,
was the cartel master. But,now that other
countries have learned to increase their
take by controlling supply, the Saudis have
less power to run the cartel. Other nations
are forcing the pace of price increases by
putting more oil into the spot market, where
the scramble for short supplies drives prices
up even faster.

Because the power of OPEC is the power
of each member to contro! production within
its borders, there is no way that the United
States or other oil-importing countries—
without resorting to war or clandestine sub-
version and violence—can make OPEC mem-
bers produce more ofl than they believe is
in their self-interest.

The simplifying axiom of economics that
& monopolist will seek to maximize profits
over time by restricting supply appears to
fit OPEC to a T. All the pleading in the
world will not avail, but will only convince
nd monopolist of the strength of his posi-

n.

‘The United States has tried that approach
where it thought it would work. President
Carter has had heavy correspondence with
Saudi leaders going back to late 1976. before
he was sworn in as President, and the con-
tents have been kept confidential. The Presi-
dent sent James Akins, a former American
Ambassador to Saudi Arabia who has been
highly sympathetic to the Saudis. to Riyadh
to talk oil prices with them. The United
States has exported vast quantities of mili-
tary goods and expertise to the Saudis.

In return, the Saudis have portrayed them-
selves, and been portrayed by the United
States Government, as “price moderates,”
who have tried to hold OPEC oil prices
down—while restricting their own output
and deciding not to expand their oil ca-
pacity, which was the only way they could
have held prices down.

Similarly, the United States sought to win
modernization from Shah Mohammad Reza
Pahlavi of Iran, before he was deposed, by
sending him sympathetic ambassadors and
even greater quantities of arms, without
noticeable restraining effect on the oil price.
The Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini appears
to be beyond the reach of such friendly
persuasion.

Short of war, is there any way for the
United States to shield itself from excessive
dependence on OPEC and to curb that
cartel's monopoly power? Threatening to im-
pound the bank accounts or other assets of
Arabs in the United States would do no good
because, as Prof. Maurice A. Adelman of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology ob-
serves, the impounding of huge sums would
have serious, possibly disastrous, repercus-
sions as other foreign-exchange holders
feared for the safety of their deposits.

The tax on so-called “windfall” oil profits,
which is a misnomer for an excise tax on
domestic oil production, will have no effect
on OPEC, whatever it may do to redistribute
income from American oil producers to some
American consumers. Indeed, the net effect
of the tax may be to reduce American oil
investment and development, thereby in-
creasing United States dependence on OPEC
and other foreign production.

A more effective approach would be to im-
pose an ad valorem tariff on ofl imports,
levying a tax on oil from abroad proportional
to the price charged for that oil. Since a
higher price would result in a higher tax,
this would shift the incentive for American
companies from producing abroad to produc-
ing at home. It would also start to capture
the monopoly profits of OPEC for the United
States Treasury, to be distributed to Ameri-
cans.

When the United States oil price reaches
the world market level, as it will under Mr.
Carter's decontrol plan, further efforts by
the OPEC monopoly to increase prices would
increase taxes and reduce their sales below
the profit-maximizing point. They would
finally have an incentive to reduce prices to
hold onto the huge American market, espe-
cially if, in the longer run, greater price in-
centives for energy conservation and produc-
tion changed the oil supply and demand
situation adversely for OPEC.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, there
appeared in the Oil and Gas Journal on
November 12, 1979, an analysis of oil in-
dustry investments, both inside and out-
side of the energy industry. The con-
clusion was, although the oil and gas in-
dustry had, in several years, invested
more of their earnings outside their tra-
ditional areas than they had customarily
done, that the swing was in the opposite
direction and that more and more of the
money was going back into their tradi-
tional areas of investment.

They predicted that that trend would
continue. But they made that prediction
without reference to the fact that the
Congress of the United States might im-
pose a windfall profit tax which would
drastically change investment opportu-
nities and rewards for investment and,
therefore, counter that trend.

But the significant remark in that ar-
ticle, as far as I was concerned—at least,
significant in this context—is their quo-
tation of a statement made by President
Carter.

I quote from the Oil & Gas Journal
of November 12, page 132, in their quo-
tation from President Carter’s statement.

“Tf the oll companies take the profits and
invest them back in the exploration and
production of additional oil and gas in our
country, then I have no objection to their
profits being made,” he said last August.
SGikeiorrntiet2® Waren’

TRO re Ome & Nt eer 8 @ ep.

ae! Vee! B.

oe FS SAS ey Oh ey Ses

Pee es oe ee

Ahem Fe ER

“But what they've done in the past is buy
restaurants and motel chains. They tried to
buy circuses. They bought department stores.
They've taken profits out of oil and not put
them back in the ground to develop more
energy for you and me.”

Mr. President, that is what my amend-
ment is all about, to take what President
Carter has said, as quoted in the Oil &
Gas Journal, and express in the statute
that exact sentiment; that they shall not
take out of their industry the higher
prices that Americans are paying for oil
and gas to invest outside the energy in-
dustry. For once, President Carter and I
are in exact agreement. And suddenly
the majority of his party in this body
find him to be wrong, because they have
suddenly found great virtue in doing the
precise thing which President Carter in
August said should not be done, that is to
tax the profits that otherwise would go
back into producing more oil and gas.

Mr. President, it seems to me to be
obvious that what we have in this debate
now is no longer simply the question of
whether or not oil company profits are
too big or too small, whether oil com-
pany profits are being invested in the
right areas or the wrong areas of our
economy, but simply the appetite of the
Congress to spend more money. This has
become not an energy bill, not an oil com-
pany profits bill, not a bill related to the
energy industry, but a revenue bill to fi-
nance more and more Federal programs.

In the face of all of the taxpayer re-
volts, in the face of all of the high-
sounding rhetoric in this body and
elsewhere by Members of this body con-
cerning a constitutional amendment to
balance the budget or support for a con-
stitutional amendment to require Federal
spending to be limited as a percentage of
gross national product or national in-
come, both of which amendments I
support, this Congress is about now to
enact the largest tax in the history of
this country, the largest single revenue
measure ever passed in the history of
this country, under the guise of being
related to oil company profits, whereas,
as a matter of fact, they are not at all
related to oil company profits.

As was related yesterday on the floor
of the Senate, the amount of money to
be raised under this proposed legisla-
tion is equal to the total amount of
revenues of the Federal Government
from 1789 to 1939, and if we take the
House-passed measure the reyen ies to be
produced under this legislation are equal
to the total amount of money raised by
the Federal Governmnt from all sources
of revenue from 1789 through 1945.

This is the largest revenue measure
in the history of this country and we
are doing it under the guise of talking
about excess profits.

Mr. President, it is my hope that the
Congress will step back from what it is
we are about to do and look at the op-
portunity to pass my amendment, which
is a profits tax, a tax on profits, a tax
on excess profits, a tax that is related
to the problem which has created those
profits, that is, the shortage of energy
in the United States and the resultant
high prices.

Mr. President, several U.S. ofl compa-
nies have reported record profits for the
third quarter of this year. Announcement
of these profit results has intensified
pressures for enacting a stiff windfall-
profit tax on the domestic production of
crude oil.

At the same time, the capital needs of
the petroleum industry have attracted
less attention. Yes these, too, are at an
all-time high and will become higher
still as the 1980’s unfold. Domestic pro-
duction of petroleum has been declining
im recent years. Unless the industry is
able to step up its spending on explora-
tion and production to unprecedented
levels, domestic supplies of oil and nat-
ural gas will continue to decline.

Mr. President, the implications of per-
mitting this decline to continue are grave
indeed. Even with the added incentives
for conservation that oil price decontrol
will encourage, the net demand for pe-
troleum will increase during the 1980's.
The rate of increase in this demand will
be dampened by conservation, and this is
vitally important. Still, however, there
will be a demand increase. Simple arith-
metic assures us, Mr. President, that a
further decline in domestic oil produc-
tion in the face of increased demand
means still greater reliance on oil im-
ports. With the current events in Iran,
we are reminded yet again that this is
simply an unacceptable result. The
United States must not be so dependent
on foreign oil supplies, which past events
have shown to be susceptible to sudden
disruption. The consequences of this
overdependence, on our economic well-
being and upon our national security,
are ominous indeed.

Before enacting a windfall profit tax
measure,the Congress must remind itself
of the vital functions that profit per-
forms in our economic system. Profit is
the ultimate source of investment funds.
The oil industry must undertake massive
investment spending if the decline in
domestic production of petroleum is to be
arrested. Failure to halt that decline will
leave all Americans even more dependent
on the OPEC oil cartel for the energy
needed to heat their homes and run their
factories.

The Congress must not allow the emo-
tions evoked, by disclosure of the indus-
try’s third quarter profits, to goad it into
enacting a tax that will assure a con-
tinued decline in domestic oil supplies.
That will be the very result of a tax that
makes it impossible for the industry to
attract the vast amounts of investment
funds it needs for future exploration and
production.

The Congress should remember that
our economy is highly interdependent.
Therefore, punishment meted out to one
industry will harm not only members of
that particular industry, but—to some
extent—all participants in the economy.
In its haste to construct a rough equity
out of the decision to decontrol domestic
oil prices, the Congress must be careful
not to instead—however unintention-
ally—harm the vast majority of Ameri-
cans.

In the remainder of my remarks, Mr.
President, I will touch upon the following
points. First, the oil industry has a good
record for reinvesting its profits in do-
mestic energy. Second, the capital re-
quirements of the U.S. oil industry are
unprecedented. Third, profit is the ulti-
mate source of investment funds. Fourth,
and finally, a tax upon an industry's pro-
duction harms that industry’s ability to
attract investment funds. Members of the
Congress should keep these points fully
in mind when deciding upon a tax, upon
its form and the amount of revenue it
should raise. A tax should be worth the
costs it will impose.

Mr. President, the U.S. oil industry has
compiled a solid record for reinvesting its
profits in future energy production. Ac-
cording to the Chase Manhattan Bank,
after-tax profits for 27 leading oil com-
panies totaled $81.3 billion between 1971
and 1977. Capital and exploration ex-
penditures for the same companies to-
taled $153.6 billion. Therefore, for every
dollar of net income realized, the com-
panies invested almost $2.

And indications are that, in 1979, capi-
tal and exploration expenditures by oil
companies have continued to exceed net
income by a substantial margin. Based
on 14 leading oil companies for which
data are available, capital and explora-
tion expenditures were almost half again
as large as net income for the first 9
months of 1979. Some 62 percent of these
expenditures were made in the United
States. This domestic spending is equiv-
alent to 90 percent of these companies’
worldwide net income.

Furthermore, the principal business of
the oil industry is energy. During the
1968-77 period, according to Chase Man-
hattan Bank data, less than 6 percent of
the total capital expenditures by the 27
leading oil companies were made in non-
oil businesses, Some of the 6 percent went
into other energy resources.

Mr. President, all of us undoubtedly
agree that the industry should be focus-
ing its efforts on producing more domes-
tic oil and gas. Yet, relatively few ap-
pear to recognize the large amounts of
investment that will be needed to ac-
complish that objective. The United
States is fortunate in that much oil and
gas remain to be found and produced.
But developing and bringing petroleum
products to market will become increas-
ingly expensive as this Nation moves
through the 1980's.

Oil that is relatively accessible and
inexpensive to produce is accounting
each year for a smaller percentage of
total U.S. oil production than in the
previous year. More and more expendi-
tures must be made, than in the past,
to explore and deliver the same amount
of oil. For example, an exploratory well
on the Outer Continental Shelf typically
costs several millions of dollars to com-
plete. And once found, oil in OCS areas
and at greater depths onshore requires
more “hardware” to recover.

The Chase Manhattan Bank has esti- |
mated that for the year 1990 the indus-
try’s annual expenditure on exploriation
and production alone must total $56 bil-
lion, measured in the purchasing power
of 1978 dollars, if domestic petroleum
production is to be kept up to the current |
level. By contrast, actual spending on |
exploration and production in 19/6 Was
some $20 billion, itself an alltime record
figure by historical standards.

Mr. President, once the end of the next
decade is upon us, the U.S. oil industry—
for exploration and production alone—
must be spending at a rate that is nearly
three times that for 1978. And this is to
keep production at approximately its
current level. Even this result, coupled
with a net increase in petroleum de-
mand, will mean greater reliance on oil
imports than is now the case. But per-
mitting an actual decline in U.S. pro-
duction means an over-dependence on
foreign oil of truly catastrophic pro-
portions.

Mr. President, the industry’s third
quarter profits are, by any measure, large,
even when we take into account the fact
that most of the increase is accounted
for by the companies’ foreign operations.
But not only should the Congress take
into account the unprecedented levels of
investment that the industry must make,
it should also remember the industry's
past profit history. Over the last decade,
the oil industry’s rate of return was below
that of total U.S. manufacturing in 5
out of the 10 years. It would be a great
mistake to enact a windfall profit tax on
the assumption that the industry in the
future will always enjoy the sort of profit
it has made in the third quarter of 1979.

Once enacted, the windfall profit tax
will be in place even if the industry's
profit in subsequent years is more mod-
est. And since the tax measure before us
is actually an excise tax—and not a tax
on profits—it will be collected even if the
industry’s profits were to vanish.

The industry enjoyed a similar, sudden
percentage increase in profit levels im-
mediately after the 1973-74 Arab oil em-
bargo. But in 1975, net income as a per-
cent of stockholders equity had fallen to
13.9 percent from 19.6 percent in 1974.
And in 1976 the return on stockholders
equity was less in the oil industry than
for total manufacturing. Furthermore,
the industry’s stockholders suffered a
similar fate in the years 1977 and ¥978.

Mr. President, in order to restore some
historical perspective, it would be helpful
if the Members of Congress were to imag-
ine what our decision would be if the
administration had announced its inten-
tion to begin phasing out price controls
on domestic oil 1 year earlier than it
actually did. A windfall profit tax meas-
ure would have come before us in the
fall of 1978 rather than in 1979. With
the industry’s profit performance in the
years 1975-78 on record, would the Con-
gress be seriously considering the sorts of
amendments now being offered to the
measure approved by the Finance Com-
mittee? Obviously not.

I urge my colleagues, therefore, to
maintain a sense of perspective. The
petroleum industry’s profitability tends,
over the long term, to be very nearly
equal that for all manufacturing. And
the tax measure before us will apply over
the long term, over years of both above-
average and below-average profits for
the industry.

Any industry, if it is to attract invest-
ment capital, must make a profit. Re-
tained earnings are, after all, one source
of funds that can be invested directly
by companies. But the outlook for future
profits also determines, to a great ex-
tent, how much companies can borrow
today to finance their investment pro-
grams. Lenders are fully aware that
profits are needed if their money is to
be repaid. The oil companies have bor-
rowed heavily over the past decade. Had
they not been able to do so, then their
investment spending over that period
would not have been approximately
double their net income.

It is not likely that people, deciding
whether or not they should lend their
money to the industry, will allow them-
selves to be swayed one iota by mere
rhetoric. These decisions will be based
on judgments made in light of the harsh
realities. Lenders will recognize that an
excise tax, of the sort represented by
the windfall profit tax measure now be-
fore us, raises costs.

Therefore, it will be deduced at once
that, even though the windfall profit
tax is not a tax on profits, it will make
the earning of a profit more difficult.
The results must be less and tighter
credit for the oil industry. And, since
the very purpose of the tax is to divert
profits, even if indirectly, to the U.S.
Treasury, the industry's ability to fi-
nance investment out of retained earn-
ings will be impaired as well.

Mr. President, the inescapable con-
clusion is that a windfall profit tax will
lower industry investment and therefore
result in less exploration and production
of new petroleum supplies. And the
higher the tax, the more it will lower
investment and future production. The
Congress must keep these realities in
mind in enacting a windfall profit tax.
It must also act in light of the indus-
try’s needs for future investment and
the industry’s past investment record.
And finally, the Congress must enact a
windfall profit tax on the basis of the
industry’s profit prospects for the long
term, not just on the results for the
thigd quarter of 1979.

Mr. President, the people of this Na-
tion have already witnessed considerable
disruption in their economic, political
and social relationships because of high-
er energy costs. The strains on our po-
litical and economic institutions will ap-
proach the breaking point if we permit
ourselves to become yet more dependent
on foreign oil supplies. The windfall
profit tax should be enacted with this
reality uppermost in our minds.

Mr. President, finally, I ask unanimous
consent that a Wall Street Journal Oc-
tober 25 editorial entitled, “The Big Oil
Rip-Off,” be printed in full at this point
in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

‘Tue Bro Or Rre-Orr

Motorists fumed over gasoline lines in the
summer, fuel prices soared, filling station
service deteriorated—and now, Exxon reports
its third quarter profits were up 119 percent
from & year before. If the oil politicians had
written the scenario for piling new taxes on

the oll industry they couldn
ieeetter? ry they 't have planned
4ndeed, Herpviock Hac &n ahti-uls conwws
in the Washington Post the very morning
of the Exxon announcement; Jimmy Carter
said the big oil profits aren't “fair to the
American people” and James G. Archuleta,
of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers
Union called the Exxon profits “pornograph-
ic,” which presumably is even worse than
obscene. And yesterday the House reversed
its previous decision to end gasoline price
controls and allocations, apparently in the
belief that keeping controls would punish
the ofl companies for their success.

To start to put this in perspective, you
have to ask who gets these profits. Not
Exxon’s hired managers, as well compensated
as they surely are. The profits go instead to
shareholders, either directly as dividends or
indirectly through share appreciation if
profit is reinvested within the business. So
who are these shareholders now so widely
accused of greed?

Some 65 percent of Exxon’s shares are held
by institutions. These are pension funds,
imsurance companies, mutual funds and
other mechanisms for small savers to pool
their resources. Plus charitable and educa-
tional foundations, colleges and universities
and the like. Employe pension funds alone
own 28 percent of Exxon. Just what does
Herblock have against retired people?

The question is even more pertinent if you
notice that most of Exxon’s profit gains were
overseas, while most of the shareholders are
Americans. If you insist on seeing profits as
an income transfer, they were a transfer
from European consumers to America’s social
welfare institutions for the retired aged.
Hardly a cause for yelling or screaming on
the New Jersey Turnpike; maybe so on Ml
to London.

But anyone who might wish to rise above
penny dreadful analysis has to ask about
the origin of these profits. Why are the oil
companies making so much money? In fact,
the companies themselves have little control
over most of the variables—prices, exchange
rates, taxes, Iranian politics—that govern
their profit rates. They really do not even
have the option of trying to lower their
profits by cutting prices, since in the short
run only so much oll is available, and since
prices below market-clearing levels would
leave them swamped with orders they could
not fill. Gas lines and the like would return;
this is also likely to be the actual effect of
yesterday’s House vote.

In any industry, when prices rise faster
than the overall rate of inflation, as ofl prod-
uct prices did this last year, it reflects, in
simplest terms, diminished competition. The
diminished competition in the oil industry
this past year resulted not from a lack of
competitors—there are 28 sizable oil com-
panies—but the political restraints that
have been applied to the energy industry,
including all the products that compete with
oil.

The Natural Gas Act crimped domestic
drilling of natural gas, which was rising
healthily before the act was passed. Environ-
‘mental laws have curtailed coal use and ex-
panded demand for unleaded gasoline, which
requires more crude oil to produce than
leaded gasoline. Pressures from the “No
More Nukes” Yippees have stalled nuclear
power development.

All of this is now to be remedied by piling
still more burdens on domestic energy pro-
duction. The windfall profits tax, which has
gotten such a marvelous boost from the
Exxon numbers, will further discourage U.S.
oil production, reducing the total world sup-
ply of ofl and practically guaranteeing that
world prices and the overseas profits of the
major ofl companies will continue to rise.
This will bring more screaming and yelling
and more Herblock cartoons from Washing-
ton. And with the screaming and yelling will
Oe ws. Vv . =e

ba hata

eee ee ge On
tions on domestic energy production.

Oll industry executives, many of whom

would probably like nothing better in this
poisoned political environment than to re-
port @ 1 percent profit decline, will continue
to be benumbed by all the political and
legal pressures that interfere with their fun-
damental goal of finding, producing and sell-
ing fuel.
The oil politicians, gearing up to run next
fall on how forcefully they have championed
the interests of the consumers, couldn’t
have written a better scenario. We wonder,
however, if there won’t come a point when
the consumers and voters will begin to ask
if they really need friends like these.

(Mr. MORGAN assumed the chair.)

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I yield
to the Senator from West Virginia.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I thank the Senator for yielding.

Mr. President, the tax rate to be ap-
plied to tier 2 oil represents one of the
critical components of this windfall
profit tax legislation. Under the Finance
Committee bill, the tier 1 tax rate would
be 75 percent, while the tier 2 rate would
be only 60 percent. The House-passed
version of the bill applies a 60-percent
tax to both categories of oil. However,
the types of oil subject to tax were more
inclusive in the House measure than in
the Finance Committee substitute. A
higher rate of taxation can be supported
for both categories of oil production.

The amendment that has been offered
by Senators BrapLEY, MOYNIHAN, Risi-
corr, and others would impose the 75-
percent tax on tier 2 oil. This oil is pro-
duced from existing reservoirs and the
expenses attendant to exploration and
development have already been ac-
counted for.

As decontrol is implemented, tier 2
oil will rise to the world price, allowing
the producers to reap revenues which are
unrelated to the costs of such develop-
ment. Economic projections indicate that
decontrol will add at least $10 per barrel
to the price of this oil, without a signifi-
cant production response. Given other
exemptions from the tax provided as
production incentives, a higher tax on
upper tier oil is appropriate.

The oil in this tier consists of proper-
ties where production began between
1972 and 1978. It also includes oil from

wells, oil from properties with
high water to oil ratios, and oil released
from tier 1 to tier 2 by virtue of the 142-
percent decline curve. Most of the oil
taxed in the Finance Committee bill is
taxed in tier 2.

Over the period 1980 through 1990, this
amendment would increase tax revenues
by about $22 billion. In fiscal year 1980,
it will produce a revenue gain of $245
million, This goes some distance in off-
setting the $9 billion revenue loss from
the exemption for independent producers
which was adopted yesterday.

Some may argue that a higher tax rate
on tier 2 oil would dilute incentives
created to stimulate production from
existing reservoirs. It is said that addi-
tional revenues from known reserves will
be reinvested to finance new production.
However, there is a limit to the funds
which can legitimately be expended for
exploration and development of new oil
resources. The balance between private
profits and public needs must be kept in
mind.

I have repeatedly stated that the wind-
fall profit tax must be fair and equitable
to the oil companies but must also raise
meaningful revenues for necessary and
urgent public purposes. The eyes of the
American public and the eyes of the peo-
ple of the world are focused on the Sen-
ate, and it is expected that we will work
our will to achieve the greater public
good. The Finance Committee bill repre-
sents a good starting place, but I believe
that we must do more. The startling
transfer of wealth from consumers of
energy to producers of oil resulting from
decontrol and the skyrocketing world
price of oil demand action. I believe that
additional revenues to be derived from
this amendment that was offered by Mr.
Brabiey will go a significant way toward
achieving the proper balance.

Mr. President, I intend to offer on be-
half of Mr. Braptey, Mr. CHaFree, Mr.
Moyninan, Mr. Risicorr, myself, and
others, the language of the Bradley-
Chafee amendment to the McClure
amendment, which means that the
amendment that I will offer will be an
amendment in the second degree.

It is in lieu of the language to be in-
serted by Mr. McCuure, so that the Sen-
ate will have before it two amendments
in the second degree, both of which will
do the same thing. A second degree
amendment by Mr. Braptey to the
amendment by Mr. Brapiey in the first
degree, the committee substitute, does
the same thing as the amendment which
I shall offer by this amendment in the
second degree to the amendment by Mr.
McC ore in the first degree to the House
bill. So no other amendments will be in
order and the Senate will reach a deci-
sion at some point on this particular
amendment.

Mr. President, in my 27 years on Cap-
itol Hill, I have never been one to use
the oil companies as a whipping boy. I
have never been a baiter of the oil com-
panies. That does not say I may not start
within the next 30 minutes, but up to this
point, I am not in that category of at-
tacker of the oil companies. But to me,
the Senate is the greatest spark of genius
that the Founders of this Republic were
given by the Creator. I believe that this
institution has a duty to raise the rev-
enues in this bill. I believe that the
American people expect the Senate to do
that, and I think the Senate would be
entitled to the just criticism of the press
and the American people if it does not
raise those revenues.

We also have to keep in mind that, in
the conference between the two Houses
which is down the road, there will be re-
solving of the areas of difference and, as
a usual thing, those conferences result in
a balancing off of the differences, a give
and take, and consequently, as usual in
such things, something of a meeting
halfway between the two. I have no par-
ticular ax to grind. I want the Senate
to do its duty. I want it to be perceived
as having done its duty. I have been
meeting with Senators on both sides of
the aisle and Senators who have varying
philosophies with respect to the oil com-
panies and the revenues from the taxes
that ought to be involved in the final
product. I think it was a good meeting
and, as I have said so many times, once
we get people together in a room, I have
never yet seen it fail to bring forth some
kind of moderation of viewpoints on all
sides and an approach which, in the final
analysis, represents a consensus. I am
encouraged to believe that that can be
done again,

I intend to offer this amendment. It is
Mr. BrapLey’s amendment, not mine; the
amendment of Mr. BrapLey and Mr.
Cuaree and the others. I offer it on their
behalf and it will not be the intention of
the leadership to press for a vote tonight.
That was understood in the private dis-
cussions that were held in my office. It
is hoped that, overnight, the staffs of
Senators can be working and that, on to-
morrow, when the Senate meets, at some
point during the day, it can make further
progress.

I yield to the distinguished Senator
from Kansas.

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, as one Sena-
tor who is interested in discussing the
amendment of the distinguished Senator
from New Jersey and the Senator from
Rhode Island, it seems to me that we are
moving in the right direction. It is the
hope of this Senator and, I think, every
one of 10 or 11 Senators who were at our
meeting—that there are four or five ma-
jor areas that need to be resolved. We
could save days and maybe even weeks
on this proposal. I commend the distin-
guished majority leader for assembling
those of us who have different views. I
would say we all have the same motive,
and that is to try to find the right course
to follow.

I am not certain who is correct, but I
think we can give some and take some.
Perhaps tomorrow there will be some
agreement on four or five major areas
that will permit us to shave several days
off the time frame. So I commend the
majority leader. I hope that all those in
attendance will pass on to those who were
not there what we are about so that they
will understand that we are trying to
make progress and trying to do the very
thing suggested by the majority leader:
Help solve the energy problem and still
strike a balance on the tax that will sat-
isfy the demands of the administration,
the demands of the American people, and
still not do violence to the industry itself.

I thank the majority leader.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I thank the distinguished Senator from
Kansas. He was one of those who were
present at the meeting. He exemplifies
the tone and the mood prevalent in that
meeting. It was a tone of cooperation, a
tone and a mood and a spirit of trying
to find an approach that would improve
the bill in a realistic way and, at the
same time, as the distinguished Senator
has just said, save the time of the Senate
in achieving that goal. Mr. MuskIe was
present, Mr. BrapLEY was present, Mr.
Lonc, Mr. Wattop, Mr. BELLMon, Mr.
DanrortH, Mr. MoYnrHAn, Mr. CHAFEE,
Mr. Netson, Mr. STevens, and Mr. Risi-
corr. So it was a well-balanced group of
Senators. I feel encouragea at the re-

sult. The staffs will work overnight and

the group will meet again tomorrow.
UP AMENDMENT NO. 850

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I send to the desk on behalf of Mr. Brap-
LEY and Mr. CHAFEE, Mr. MOYNIHAN, Mr.
Risrcorr, and others, an amendment to
the McClure amendment. I have, with
the approval of Mr. CHaree, added my
name.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
amendment will be stated.

The legislative clerk read as follows:

The Senator from West Virginia (Mr. Ros-
ert C. Byrp), for himself and Mr. BRADLEY,
Mr. CHarge, Mr. Risicorr, Mr. NELSON, Mr.
Roru, Mr. MoxyntHan, Mr, Packwoop, Mr.
DURENBERGER, Mr. Weicker, Mr. McGovern,
Mr. Tsoncas, Mr. Forp, Mr. Bren, Mr. Hart
+ and Mr. Leany, proposes an unprinted
¢ amendment numbered 850.
>
3

ee eee Se eee eee,

aN <a

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,

I ask unanimous consent that the read-

ing of the amendment be dispensed with.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
' objection, it is so ordered.

The amendment is as follows:
" In lieu of the language to be inserted by
> amendment UP 849 of the Senator from
- Idaho (Mr. McCiure) insert the following:
L ‘TITLE I—WINDPALL PROFIT TAX ON
; DOMESTIC CRUDE OIL
> Sec. 101. Wrpratt Prorir Tax.
(a) In GENERAL.—

(1) AMENDMENT OF SUBTITLE D.—Subtitle D
(relating to miscellaneous excise taxes) is
amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new chapter:

“Chapter 45—WINDFALL PROFIT TAX ON
DOMESTIC CRUDE OIL
. Imposition of tax,
. Amount of tax.
. Taxable crude oil; the 3 tiers for
tax purposes.
“Sec. 4989. Windfall profit; removal price.
‘Sec. 4990. Adjusted base price.
‘Sec. 4991. Definitions and special rules re-
lating to categories of oil.
“Sec. 4992. Other definitions and special
‘Sec.
‘Sec.

rules.
. 4993. Phaseout of tax.
. 4994. Records and information; regu-
lations.
“Sec. 4995. Cross references.
“Sec. 4986. Imposrrion or Tax.

“(a) Imposition or Tax.—An excise tax is
hereby imposed on the windfall profit from
taxable crude ofl removed from the premises
during each taxable period.

“(b) Tax Paw py Propucer.—The tax im-
posed by this section shall be paid by the
producer of the crude oil.

“Sec. 4987. AMounT oF Tax.

“(a) In GeneraL.—The amount of the tax
imposed by section 4986 with respect to any
barrel of taxable crude oil shall be—

“(1) 75 percent of the windfall profit on
such barrel in the case of tier 1 or tier 2 oil,
and

“(2) 60 percent of the windfall profit on
such barrel in the case of tier 3 oil.

“(b) FRACTIONAL Part oF Barret.—In the
case of a fraction of a barrel, the tax imposed
by section 4986 shall be the same fraction of
the amount of such tax imposed on a whole
barrel.

“Sec. 4988. TAXABLE Crupe Or; THE 3 Trers
For Tax PURPOSES.

“(a) TAXaBLE Crupe O1.—For purposes of
this chapter, the term ‘taxable crude oil’
means all domestic crude oil other than—

“(1) newly discovered oil,

“(2) Incremental tertiary ofl,
“(4) qualified stripper oil.

(b) Trer 1 Om.—For purposes of this chap-
ter, the term ‘tier 1 ofl’ means domestic crude
oil (other than high water-cut oil or front-
end tertiary oil) which—

“(1) 1s lower tier ofl, or

“(2) would be lower tier oll if the base
production control level for such oil were re-
duced for January 1980 and each month
thereafter by 144 percent (instead of 3 per-
cent).

“(c) Tren 2 Om.—For purposes of this
chapter, the term ‘tier 2 ofl’ means domestic
crude oil which is—

“(1) upper tier ofl (other than oll de-
scribed in subsection (b) (2)), or

“(2) high water-cut oil or front-end terti-

oil.

ary

“(d) Ter 3 Om.—For purposes of this
chapter, the term ‘tier 3 oil’ means taxable
crude oil other than tier 1 oil and tier 2 oil.

“(1) Lower Trer ort.—The term ‘lower tier
oil’ means domestic crude ofl which is or
would be subject to the lower tier ceiling
price rule of the June 1979 energy
regulations.

“(2) UPPER TIER O©.—The term ‘upper tier
oil’ means domestic crude oil which is or
would be subject to the upper tier ceiling
price rule of the June 1979 energy regulations.

“(3) DISREGARD OF CUMULATIVE DEFICIEN-

cres.—For purposes of applying the June
1979 energy regulations to any domestic
crude ofl under paragraph (1), any cumula-
tive deficiency shall not be taken into ac-
count in determining whether such oil is
lower or upper tier ofl unless such deficiency
results from an attempt to avoid the tax im-
posed by section 4986.
“Sec. 4989. WivDFALL Prorir; REMOVAL PRICE,
&@) General Ruie.—For purposes of this
chapter, the term ‘windfall profit’ means the
excess of the removal price of the barrel of
crude oil over the sum of—

“(1) the adjusted base price of such barrel,
and

“(2) the amount of the severance tax ad-
justment with respect to such barrel pro-
vided by section 4992(d).

“(b) Net Income LimrraTion on WIND-
FALL PROFIT.—

“(1) IN GENERAL—The windfall profit on
any barrel of crude oil shall not exceed 90
Percent of the net income attributable to
such barrel,

“(2) DETERMINATION OF NET INCOME.—For
purposes of paragraph (1), the net income
attributable to a barrel shall be determined
by dividing—

“(A) the taxable income from the property
for the taxable year attributable to taxable
crude oil, by

“(B) the number of barrels of taxable
crude oil produced from such property dur-
ing such taxable year,

“(3) TAXABLE INCOME FROM THE PROPERTY.—
For purposes of paragraph (2)—

“(A) In GENERAL.—Except as otherwise
Provided in this paragraph, the taxable in-
come from the property shall be determined
under section 613(a).

“(B) CERTAIN DEDUCTIONS NOT ALLOWED.—
No deduction shall be allowed for—

“(1) depletion,

“(it) section 263(c) costs, or

“(iil) the tax imposed by section 4986.

“(C) TaxaBLE INCOME REDUCED BY COST DE-
PLETION.—Taxable income shall be reduced
by the cost depletion which would have been
allowable for the taxable year with respect
to the property if—

“(i) all section 263(c) costs incurred by
the taxpayer had been capitalized and taken
mr account in computing cost depletion,
an

“(i1) cost depletion had been used by the

ll periods.

“(D) Section 263(c) costs.—For purposes
if this paragraph, the term ‘section 263(c)
osts’ means intangible drilling and develop-
nent costs incurred by the taxpayer which
by reason of an election under section
63(c)) may be deducted as expenses for pur-
yoses of this title (other than this para-
raph). Such term shall not include costs in-
surred in drilling a nonproductive well.

“(4) SPECIAL RULES FOR TRANSFERS OF PROVEN
IL OR GAS PROPERTIES.—

“(A) In GEeneRAL.—In the case of any
proven oil or gas property transfer which, but
‘or this subparagraph, would result in an in-
rease in the amount determined under para-
trraph (3)(C) with respect to the transferee,
aragraph (3)(C) shall be applied with re-
pect to the transferee by taking into ac-
ount only costs incurred during periods after
such transfer.

“(B) PROVEN OIL OR GAS PROPERTY TRANS-
"ER.—For purposes of subparagraph (A), the
erm ‘proven oil or gas property transfer’
means any transfer (including the subleas-
ng of a lease or the creation of a production
2ayment which gives the transferee an eco-
10mic interest in the property) after 1978 of
sn interest (including an interest in a part-
ership or trust) in any proven oil or gas
sroperty (within the meaing of section 613A
(c) (9) (A) ).

“(5) SPECIAL RULE WHERE THERE IS PRODUC-
‘ION PAYMENT.—For purposes of paragraph
(2), if any portion of the taxable crude oil
‘emoved from the property is applied in dis-
hharge of a production payment, the gross in-
‘ome from such portion shall be included in
he gross income from the property in com-
yuting the taxable income of the producer.

“(c) REMOVAL Price.—For purposes of this
shapter—

“(1) In GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this subsection, the term ‘removal
price’ means the amount for which the bar-
el is sold.

“(2) SALES BETWEEN RELATED PERSONS.—In
she case of a sale between related persons
(within the meaning of section 103(b) (6)
(C)), the removal price shall not be less than
the constructive sales price for purposes of
jetermining gross income from the property
under section 613.

“(3) OI REMOVED FROM PREMISES BEFORE
SALE.—If crude oil is removed from the prem-
ses before it is sold, the removal price shall
be the constructive sales price for purposes
of determining gross income from the prop-
arty under section 613.

“(4) REFINING BEGUN ON PREMISES.—If the
manufacture or conversion of crude oil into
refined products begin before such oil is re-
moved from the premises—

“(A) such oil shall be treated as removed
on the day such manufacture or conversion
egins, and

“(B) the removal price shall be the con-
structive sales price for purposes of deter-
mining gross income from the property under
section 613.

“(5) MEANING OF TERMS.—As used in this
subsection, the terms ‘premises’ and ‘refined
sroduct’ have the same meaning as when
used for purposes of determining gross in-
come from the property under section 613.
‘Sec. 4990. ADJUSTED Base Price.

“(a) ApsJusTED Base Price Drrinep.—For
purposes of this chapter, the term ‘adjusted
base price’ means the base price for the barrel
of crude oil plus an amount equal to—

“(1) such base price, multiplied by

“(2) the inflation adjustment for the cal-
endar quarter in which the crude oil is re-
moved (or deemed removed) from the
premises.

The amount determined under the preceding
sentence shall be rounded to the nearest
cent.
(1) In GENERAL.—For purposes of subsec-
mm (a), the inflation adjustment for any
lendar quarter is the percentage by
1ich—
“(A) the implicit price deflator for the
oss national product for the second preced-
g calendar quarter, exceeds
“(B) such deflator for the calendar quarter
ding December 31, 1978.
“(2) FIRST REVISION OF PRICE DEFLATOR
eD.—For purposes of paragraph (1), the
ice deflator used shall be the first revision
ereof.
“(c) Base Price ror Tier 1 Or..—For pur-
ses of this chapter, the base price for tier
oll is the lower tier ceiling price (as of May
79) for such oil under the March 1979 en-
gy regulations.
“(d) Base Price ror Tier 2 Om.—For pur-
ses of this chapter—
“(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
‘agraph (2), the base price for tier 2 oil
the upper tier ceiling price (as of May
79) for such oil under the March 1979 en-
gy regulations.
“(2) MONTHLY INCREMENTS STARTING NO-
‘MBER 1, 1986.—Beginning with November
86, the base price for tier 2 oil shall be in-
eased by 6 cents per month over the 50
onth period ending December 31, 1990.

“(e) Base Price ror Trer 3 Om.—For pur-
»ses of this chapter, the base price for tier
oil is the price provided pursuant to reg-
lations prescribed by the Secretary for
e purpose of estimating (as nearly as may
> practicable) the price at which uncon-
olled crude oil of the same grade and
cation would have sold in September 1979

the average landed price during such
onth for imported crude oll were $15.30
barrel.
3EC. 4991. DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES
RELATING TO CATEGORIES OF
Om.

“(a) Newty Discoverep Om DErineD.—
or pt of this chapter (including
16 application of the June 1979 energy reg-
lations for purposes of this chapter), the
rm ‘newly discovered oil’ has the meaning
ven to such term by the June 1979 energy
gulations.

“(b) AtasKAN Om FROM SADLEROCHIT
ESERVOIR.—For purposes of this chapter—

“(1) IN GeneraL.—tIn the case of Sadlero-
rit ofl—

“(A) ADJUSTED BASE PRICE INCREASED BY
PS ADJUSTMENT.—The adjusted base price
rr any calendar quarter (determined with-
ut regard to this subsection) shall be in-
eased by the TAPS adjustment (if any)
yr such quarter provided by paragraph (2).

“(B) REMOVAL PRICE DETERMINED ON
ONTHLY BASIS.—The removal price of such
1 removed (or deemed removed) during
ny calendar month shall be the average
( the producer’s removal prices for such
lonth.

“(2) TAPS aDJUSTMENT.—

“(A) In GENERAL.—The TAPS adjustment
yr any calendar quarter is the excess (if
ny) of—

“(1) $6.26, over

“(ii) the TAPS tariff for the preceding
alendar quarter.

“(B) TAPS Tarrrr.—For purposes of sub-
aragraph (A), the TAPS tariff for the
receding calendar quarter is the average per
arrel amount paid for all transportation
ending in such quarter) of crude oll
nrough the TAPS.

“(C) TAPS peFinep.—For purposes of this
aragraph, the term ‘TAPS’ means the ‘Trans-
laskan Pipeline System.

“(3) SADLEROCHIT OIL DEFINED.—The term
sadlerochit oil’ means crude oll produced
‘om the Sadlerochit reservoir in the Prud-
oe Bay oil field.
“(c) INCREMENTAL TERTIARY Ot, DEFINED.—
For purposes of this chapter (and the ap-
plication of the June 1979 energy regulations
to this chapter)—

“(1) In GENERAL.—The term ‘incremental
tertiary oil’ means the excess of—

“(A) the amount of crude oil which is re-
moved (or deemed removed) from a property
during any month and which is produced on
or after the project beginning date and dur-
ing the period for which a qualified tertiary
recovery project is in effect on the property,
over

“(B) the base level for such property for
such month.

(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT.—

“(A) Base LeveL.—The base level for any
property for any month is the average
monthly amount (determined under rules
similar to rules used in determining the base
production control level under the June 1979
energy regulations) of crude ofl removed (or
deemed removed) from such property during
the 6-month period ending March 31, 1979,
reduced by the sum of—

“(i) the greater of—

“(I) 1 percent of such amount for each
month which begins after 1978 and before
the project beginning date, or

“(II) the average monthly rate of decline
for the months described in subclause (I)
multiplied by the number of such months,
and

“(il) 2% percent of such amount for each
month which begins after the project be-
ginning date (or after 1978 if the project

ing date is before 1979) and before
the month for which the base level is being
determined.

“(B) MINIMUM AMOUNT IN CASE OF PROJ-
ECTS CERTIFIED BY DOE.—In the case of a proj-
ect described in paragraph (4)(A), the
amount of the incremental tertiary ofl shall
not be less than the incremental production
determined under the June 1979 energy reg-
ulations.

“(3) ALLOCATION RULES—The determina-
tion of which barrels of crude oil removed
(or deemed removed) during any months are
incremental tertiary oil shall be made—

“(A) first by allocating the amount of
incremental tertiary oil between oil which
(but for this subsection) would be tier 1 oil,
oil which (but for this subsection) would be
tier 2 oil, and oil which (but for this sub-
section) would be tier 3 oil in proportion to
the respective amounts of such oil removed
from the property during such month, and

“(B) then by taking into account barrels
of crude oil so removed in the order of their
respective removal prices beginning with the
highest of such prices.

“(4) QUALIFIED TERTIARY RECOVERY PROJ-
ect.—The term ‘qualified tertiary recovery
project’ means— :

“(A) a qualified tertiary enhanced recovery
project with respect to which a certification
as such has been approved and is in effect
under the June 1979 energy regulations, or

“(B) any project for enhancing recovery
of crude ofl which meets the requirements of
paragraph (5).

“(5) REQUIREMENTS.—A project meets the
requirements of this paragraph if—

“(A) the project involves a tertiary re-
covery process (within the meaning of para-
graph (6) (A));

“(B) the project is implemented and op-
erated in accordance with sound engineer-
ing principles;

“(C) aoe area is delineated in such
@ Manner the property (for purposes of
determining the amount of incremental ter-
tiary ofl) consists of that area from which
the ultimate recovery of crude oil can rea-
sonably be expected to be enhanced as a
result of implementation and operation of
the project; and
“(D) the operator submits (at such time
and in such manner as the Secretary may by
regulations prescribe) to the Secretary—

“(1) a certification from a petroleum en-
gineer that the project meets, and continues
to meet, the requirements of subparagraphs
(A), (B), and (C); or

“(i1) @ certification that a jurisdictional
agency (within the meaning of paragraph
(6)(C)) has approved the project as meet-
ing, and continuing to meet, the require-
ments of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C),
and has not revoked such approval (within
the meaning of paragraph (6)(D)).

“(6) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—For
purposes of this subsection—

“(A) TERTIARY RECOVERY PROCESS DEFINED.—
The term ‘tertiary recovery process’ means
an oil fleld operation which, according to
sound engineering principles, reasonably can
be expected to enhance the ultimate recovery
of crude oil by—

“(1) any method which is described in
subparagraphs (1) through (9) of section
212.78(c) of the June 1979 energy regula-
tions, or

“(ii) any other method approved by the

Secretary.

“(B) Prosect BEGINNING DATE.—The term
‘project beginning date’ means the later of
the date on which the injection of liquids
or gases begins, or the date on which—

“(i) in the case of a project described in
paragraph (4)(A), the project is certified
as a qualified tertiary enhanced recovery
project under the June 1979 energy regula-
tions, or

“(i1) in the case of a project described in
paragraph (4)(B), a petroleum engineer or
jurisdictional agency certifies or approves
the project as meeting the requirements of
subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of para-
graph (5).

“(C) JURISDICTIONAL AGENCY.—The term
‘Jurisdictional agency’ means—

“(1) in the case of an application involv-
ing a tertiary recovery project on lands not
under Federal jurisdiction—

“(I) the appropriate State agency in the
State in which such lands are located which
is designated by the Governor of such State
in a written notification submitted to the
Secretary as the agency which will approve
projects under this subsection, or

“(II) if the Governor of such State does
not submit such written notification within
180 days after the date of enactment of the
Crude Oil Windfall Profit Tax Act of 1979,
the United States Geological Survey (until
such time as the Governor submits such
notification), or

“(il) in the case of an application involv-
ing a tertiary recovery project on lands un-
der Federal jurisdiction, the United States
Geological Survey.

“(D) REVOCATION OF APPROVAL BY JURISDIC-
TIONAL AGENCY.—For purposes of paragraph
(5) (D) (11), the approval of a project may be
revoked by the jurisdictional agency only
if—

“(i) there was a misrepresentation of a
material fact on the part of the operator in
obtaining such approval, or

“(ii) the project is not implemented or

overated in a manner reasonably consistent
with the plan set forth in the materials sub-
mitted to such agency and upon which such
approval was based or with an approved
modification of such plan.
A revocation under clause (li) shall not be
effective prior to the date on which the op-
erator ceased to implement and overate the
project in a manner reasonably consistent
with the plan, or approved modification of
such plan, as determined by the jurisdic-
tional agency.

“(E) PROJECT CONTINUES IN EFFECT.—For
purposes of paragraph (1) (A), a tertiary re-
a0

1 ee Bae

“"

'RPP SHPOal

ane

covery project approved under paragraph (5)
(D) (ii) shall be considered to continue in
effect during any period after termination of
injection of liquids or gases if—

“(i) the project was implemented and
operated in accordance with sound engineer-
ing principles and in accordance with the
plan (or with an approved modification of
the plan),

“(ii) the approval of the jurisdictional
agency has not been revoked, and

“(ill) the terminated injection process was
certified by the jurisdictional agency and
by a petroleum engineer as being ineffective
or counterproductive.

“(F) IMPLEMENTATION BY JURISDICTIONAL
AGENCIES AND SECRETARY.—

“(i) PeperaL.—Not later than 180 days af-
ter the date of enactment of the Crude Oil
Windfall Profit Tax Act of 1979, the Secre-
tary and the United States Geological Survey
shall promulgate and make effective such
regulations and establish such procedures as
are necessary to carry out responsibilities
under this subsection.

“(il) SraTe.—As soon as possible after the
date of enactment of the Crude Oil Windfall
Profit Tax Act of 1979 and following submis-
sion of written notice by the Governor of a
State under subparagraph (C) (1), the juris-
dictional agency of such State shall publish
such regulations and establish such proce-
dures as it determines necessary to carry out
its responsibilities under this subsection.

“(G) Basis OF REVIEW OF CERTAIN QUALIFIED
TERTIARY RECOVERY PROJECTS.—In the case of
any project for which a certification is sub-
mitted to the Secretary under paragraph (5)
(D) (ii), the project shall be considered a
qualified tertiary recovery project unless the
Secretary determines that—

“(1) the approval of the jurisdictional
agency was not supported by substantial evi-
dence on the record upon which such ap-
proval was based, or

“(ii) additional evidence not contained in

the record upon which such approval was
based demonstrates that such project does
not meet the requirements of subparagraph
(A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (5).
In the event a project is determined not to
be a qualified tertiary recovery project, the
burden of proof shall be on the taxpayer to
establish that the project meets the require-
ments of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of
paragraph (5).

“(H) RULINGS RELATING TO CERTAIN QUALI-
FIED TERTIARY RECOVERY PROJECTS.—In the case
of any tertiary recovery project for which a
certification is submitted to the Secretary
under paragraph (5) (D) (ii), a taxpayer may
request a ruling from the Secretary with re-
spect to whether such project is a qualified
tertiary recovery project. The Secretary shall
issue such ruling within 180 days of the date
he receives the request.

“(d) QUALIFIED Sreiprer Om.—For pur-
poses of this chapter—

“(1) In GENERAL.—The term ‘qualified
stripper oll’ means so much of an eligible
taxpayer's qualified production during any
taxable period beginning after September 30,
1980, as does not exceed the product of—

“(A) 1,000 barrels, multiplied by

“(B) the number of days during the tax-
able period.

“(2) DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL RULES.—For
purposes of this subsection—

“(A) QUALIFIED PRODUCTION.—

“(i) IN GENERAL.—A taxpayer's qualified
production during any taxable period is the
number of barrels of crude oil—

“(I) which are removed from any property
during such taxable period; and

“(II) with respect to which such taxpayer
is Hable for the tax imposed by section 4986
(determined without regard to this subsec-
tion and section 4988 (a) (4) ).

“(ii) Roraury owNERS.—In the case of the
_ OD BS SD ITE CES LE RIS LIL RH MELE
qualified production of such taxpayer from
each property shall be equal to an amount
which bears the same ratio to the amount of
the total barrels of production of such tax-
payer from such property (determined with-
out regard to this subsection) as—

“(I) the working interests held by eligible

yers, bears to
“(II) the working interests held by all

taxpayers.

“(ill) TRANSFERRED PRODUCTION.—A tax-
payer's qualified production shall not include
production from a property to the extent the
taxpayer's interest in such property was held
by an integrated oll company on October 24,
1979.

“(B) ELIGIBLE TAXPAYER.—The term ‘eli-
gible taxpayer’ means any taxpayer other
than—

“(i) an integrated ofl company or a part-
nership, or

“({1) any Member of Congress serving dur-
ing the Ninety-sixth Congress or any mem-
ber of such Member's family (within the
meaning of section 267(c) (4))-

“(C) INTEGRATED Om comPaANy.—The term
‘integrated oil company’ means any taxpayer
described in paragraph (2) or (4) of section
613A(d).

“(D) ALLOCATION AMONG RELATED PERSONS.—

“(1) In the case of persons who are mem-
bers of the same related group during the
taxable period, the 1,000-barrel amount con-
tained in paragraph (1) for days during such
period shall be reduced for each person by
allocating the 1,000 barrels among all such
persons in proportion to their respective
qualified production during such period.

“(i1) RELATED Group.—For purposes of
clause (1), the term ‘related group’ means—

“(I) a controlled group of corporations (as
defined in section 613A(c) (8) (D) (1),

“(II) a group of entities among which an
allocation would be made under subpara-
graph (B) of section 613A(c) (8), and

“(III) members of the same family (as
defined in section 613A(c) (8) (D) (iil)).

“(3) TREATMENT OF PARTNERSHIPS.—

“(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this
subsection, the qualified production of a

nership—

“(1) shall be equal to the qualified pro-
duction of the partnership (determined
without regard to this paragraph) reduced,
under regulations prescribed by the Secre-
tary, by an amount which bears the same
ratio to such amount as the interest of part-
ners in such production who are not eligible
partners bears to the interest of all partners
in such partnership, and

“(i1) as so reduced, shall be allocated to
eligible partners in the manner provided
under this paragraph.

“(B) AttocaTion.—In the case of the
qualified production of a partnership from
any property, an eligible partner shall—

“(1) for purposes of paragraph (1), be
treated as having produced, and

“(i1) for purposes of section 6429, be
treated as having pald the tax,
with respect to an amount equal to his
eligible partnership interest in so much of
the qualified production of the partnership
as does not exceed the product determined
under paragraph (1) for such taxable period.

“(C) ee me Purposes of this

“(1) ELIGIBLE PARTNERSHIP INTEREST.—The
term ‘eligible partnership interest’ with re-
Spect to any qualified production means that
portion of such production which bears the
same ratio to the total production’as an
eligible partner's interest in such production
bears to the interest of all eligible partners.

“(i1) Extorste partNER.—The term ‘eligible
partner’ means any partner who would be an
peer taxpayer with respect to such pro-
pucTion.—If the qualified production of an
eligible taxpayer during a taxable period
exceeds the amount which may be treated as
qualified stripper oil under paragraph (1),
the windfall profit, for purposes of deter-
mining the amount of the tax imposed by
section 4986 with respect to such excess, shall
be equal to an amount which bears the same
ratio to the amount of windfall profit on the
total barrels of qualified production (deter-
mined without regard to this subsection)

as—

“(A) the number of barrels of such excess,
bears to

“(B) the number of barrels of such quali-
fled production.”.

“(e) Heavy Om.—For purposes of this
chapter, the term ‘heavy oll’ has the mean-
ing given to such term by Executive Order
Numbered 12153.

“(f) Hich Water-Cur Om.—For purposes
of this chapter—

“(1) In ceneraL.—The term ‘high water-
cut ofl’ means crude oil removed from a high
water-cut oil property.

“(2) HIGH WATER-CUT OIL PROPERTY DE-

“(A) In GeneRaL.—The term ‘high water-
cut oll property’ means any property which
has had a water-oil ratio of 9 or more during
any consecutive 12-month period beginning
after December 31, 1977.

“(B) WarTer-orm raTio.—The term ‘water-
oil ratio’ with respect to any property means
the amount determined by dividing—

“(i) the aggregate volume of water pro-
duced from the property during such con-
secutive 12-month period, by

“(il) the aggregate volume of crude oil
produced from the property during such
period.

“(C) MAxIMUM FEASIBLE RATE.—A property
shall not be treated as having a water-oil
ratio of 9 or more during any such period
unless production during such period was at
its maximum feasible rate consistent with
recognized conservation practices (deter-
mined in the same manner as under the
June 1979 energy regulations).

“(g) Pront-enp TeRTIary O1.—For pur-
poses of this chapter—

“(1) In GceNeraL.—Any front-end tertiary
oil shall be treated as tier 2 oil.

“(2) PRONT-END TERTIARY OIL DEFINED.—The
term ‘front-end tertiary oll’ means any
crude oil receiving special price treatment
for purposes of providing front-end financing
for tertiary recovery projects.

“Sec. 4992. OTHER DEFINITIONS AND SPECIAL
RULES.

“(a) Propucer AND OPERATOR.—

“(1) Propucer.—For purposes of this chap-
ter, the term ‘producer’ means the holder of
the economic interest with respect to the
crude oil.

“(2) Oprrator.—The term ‘operator’ in-
cludes any person responsible for the man-
agement and operation of crude ofl produc-
tion on a property.

“(b) Orner Derrnrrions.—For purposes of
this chapter—

“(1) Crue om.—The term ‘crude ofl’ has
the meaning given to such term by the June
1979 energy regulations.

“(2) BarreL.—The term ‘barrel’ means 42
United States gallons.

“(3) Domestic._—The term ‘domestic’, when
used with respect to crude oil, means crude
oil produced from an oil well located in the
United States or in a possession of the United
States.

“(4) UnNrrep states—The term ‘United
States’ has the meaning given to such term
by paragraph (1) of section 638 (relating to
Continental Shelf areas).

“(5) POSSESSION OF THE UNITED STATES.—
The term ‘possession of the United States’
has the meaning given to such term by para-
graph (2) of section 638.
has the meaning given to such term by sec-
tion 106(b) (2)(C) (ii) of the Natural Gas
Policy Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3316(b) (2) (C)
(i) ).

“(7) 'TaxaBLE pERtop.—The term ‘taxable
period’ means each calendar quarter begin-
ning after December 31, 1979.

“(8) ENERGY REGULATIONS.—

“(A) In GeneraL.—The term ‘energy regu-
lations’ means regulations prescribed under
section 4(a) of the Emergency Petroleum Al-
location Act of 1973 (15 U.S.C. 753(a)).

“(B) MaRcH 1979 ENERGY REGULATIONS.—
‘The March 1979 energy regulations shall be
the terms of the energy regulations as such
terms existed on March 1, 1979.

“(C) JUNE 1979 ENERGY REGULATIONS.—The
June 1979 energy regulations—

“(1) shall be the terms of the energy reg-
ulations as such terms existed on June 1,
1979, and

“(i1) shall be treated as including final
action taken pursuant thereto before June 1,
1979, and as including action taken before,
on, or after such date with respect to incre-
mental production from qualified tertiary en-
hanced recovery projects.

“(D) CONTINUED APPLICATION OF REGULA-
TIONS AFTER DECONTROL.—Energy regulations
shall be treated as continuing in effect with-
out regard to decontrol of oil prices or any
other termination of the application of such
regulations.

“(c) RULES FoR COLLECTION AND DEPOSIT OF
‘Tax.—

“(1) DEDUCTION AND WITHHOLDING OF TAX.—
Except as provided in paragraphs (4) and (5),
if the removal of any taxable crude oll is de-
termined under section 4989(c) (1)—

“(A) the tax imposed by section 4986 with
respect to such crude oil shall be collected
by the purchaser of such crude oll by deduct-
ing and withholding the amount of such tax
from amounts payable for such oll,

“(B) the purchaser of such crude oil shall
be liable for the payment of the tax required
to be deducted and withheld under subpara-
graph (A), and shall not be Mable to any
person for the amount of any such payment,

“(C) the producer shall not be required to
file a return of the tax imposed by section
4986 with respect to such oll, and

“(D) the producer shall be treated as hav-
ing filed the return and paid the amount of
the tax collected by the purchaser on the due
date prescribed by section 6076 for filing the
return for the taxable period in which such
oil was removed from the premises.

“(2) NET INCOME LIMITATION NOT TO BE
APPLIED.—In determining the amount to be
collected under paragraph (1)(A), section
4989(b) shall not apply.

“(3) DEPOSIT OF TAX DEDUCTED AND WITH-
HELD.—

“(A) In the case of a purchaser who is
not an integrated oil company, deposit of the
amounts deducted and withheld under para-
graph (1)(A) shall be made not later than—

“(i) 45 days after the end of the month
in which such oil was purchased, or

“(i1) in the case of ofl purchased under a
contract therefor by an independent oil re-
finer (as defined in subparagraph (C))
under which no payment is required to be
made before the forty-sixth day after the
date on which the oil is purchased, before
the first day of the third month which
begins after the end of the month in which
such oil was purchased.

“(B) In the case of an integrated oll com-
pany (as defined in subparagraph (D)) other
than ‘an independent refiner, deposit of the
estimated amount of the taxpayer's lability
for the tax imposed by section 4986 shall be
made semi-monthly.

“(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘independent refiner’ has the same
meaning as in paragraph (3) of section 3
of the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act
of 1973 (15 U.S.C. 752), except that ‘the
preceding taxable period’ shall be substi-
tuted for ‘November 27, 1973’ in applying
such paragraph for purposes of this para-

graph.

“(D) For purposes of this paragraph, the
term ‘integrated oll company’ means a tax-
payer, other than an independent refiner,
described in paragraph (2) or (4) of sec-
tion 613A(d).

“(4) ELECTION BY THE PURCHASER AND OP-
ERATOR TO HAVE OPERATOR PAY TAX AND FILE
RETURN.—Under regulations prescribed by
the Secretary, if the purchaser of taxable
crude ofl and the operator of the well from
which the crude ofl was produced make a
joint election under this paragraph, the tax
shall be paid and the return shall be filed by
the operator.

“(5) QUALIFIED STRIPPER PROPERTY.—

“(A) Ly Generat.—In the case of crude oil
removed from a qualified stripper property
during any taxable period which is not quali-
fled stripper oil, the tax shall be paid and
the return shall be filed by the producer.

“(B) Depostr oF TAX.—

“(i) In ceneraL—Except as provided in
clause (il), @ producer required under sub-
paragraph (A) to pay tax shall make a de-
posit of the amount of such tax within 45
days of the last day of the taxable period
during which such oll was removed from the
premises,

“(il) INTEGRATED OTL company. An inte-
grated oil company required under subpara-
graph (A) to pay tax shall make a deposit
of such tax in the same manner as a pur-
chaser which is an integrated oll company
makes such deposit under paragraph (3).

“(C) MEANING OF TERMS.—For purposes Of
this paragraph, the terms ‘qualified stripper
property’, ‘qualified stripper oil’, ‘integrated
oil company’ and ‘eligible taxpayer’ have
the same meaning as in section 4991(d).

“(d) Severance Tax ADJUSTMENT.—For

P

“(i) In Generat.—The severance tax ad-
jJustment with respect to any barrel of crude
oil shall be the amount by which—

“(A) any severance tax imposed with re-
spect to such barrel, exceeds

“(B) the severance tax which would have
been imposed if the barrel had been ex-
tracted and sold at its adjusted base price.

“(2) LrMITaTION ON AMOUNT OF SEVERANCE
Tax.—The amount of severance tax taken
into account under paragraph (1) shall not
exceed the amount which would have been
imposed under the State law in effect on
March 31, 1979, unless such excess is attrib-
utable to an increase in the rate of the sev-
erance tax which applies equally to all por-
tions of the removal price.

“(3) SEVERANCE TAX IMPOSED BY INDIAN
TRIBES.—For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘severance tax’ shall include any sev-
erance tax imposed by an Indian tribe, and
such severance tax shall be treated in the
same manner as & severance tax imposed by
a@ State.

“(e) SpectaL Rutes ror Post-1978 Trans-
FERs OP ProperTy.—In the case of a transfer
after 1978 of any portion of a property, for
purposes of this chapter (including the ap-
plication of the June 1979 energy regulations
for purposes of this chapter), after such
transfer—

“(1) crude oll produced from any portion
of such property shall not constitute strip-
per oil, newly discovered oil, marginal oll,
pal oad or high water-cut oil if such oil
wo! no’ so classified if the property
not been transferred, and 4 a

ol piers of the base production
control level among portions of the property
shall be made under
oy the ae Tegulations prescribed

“({) EX@MPrion For CERTAIN INTERESTS
HELD By STATE on LOCAL GovERNMENTS.—

“(1) In cenzra,.—if—

ee -;

a
“(A) @n economic interest in crude Ol) 18
held by a State or political subdivision
thereof, or by an educational institution or
other entity which is an agency or instru-
mentality of a State or political subdivision
thereof, and

“(B) under the applicable State or local
law, all of the net income received pursuant
to such interest is dedicated to public edu-
cation or another public purpose,
then no tax shall be imposed by section 4986
with respect to crude oil properly allocable
to such interest. For purposes of this para-
graph, the term ‘net income’ means gross in-
come reduced by production costs, and sever-
ance taxes of general application, allocable to
such interest.

“(2) AMOUNTS PLACED IN CERTAIN PERMA-
NENT FUNDS TREATED AS DEDICATED TO PUBLIC
EDUCATION OR OTHER PUBLIC PURPOSE.—The re-
quirements of paragraph (1)(B) shall be
treated as met with respect to any net in-
come which, under the applicable State or
local law, is placed in a permanent fund the

on which are dedicated to public
education or other public purpose.

“(1) an economic interest in crude oil is
held by an Indian tribe, an individual mem-
ber of an Indian tribe, or a tribal
tion and the crude oll is produced from lands
or mineral interests which are—

“(A) held in trust by the United States for
that tribe, member, or organization, or

“(B) held by that tribe, member, or orga-
nization and are subject to a restriction
against alienation imposed by the United
States, or

“(2) the proceeds from the sale of crude
oil are deposited in the Treasury of the
United States to the credit of tribal or native
trust funds,
then no tax shall be imposed by section 4986
with respect to crude oll properly allocable
to such interest or proceeds.

“(h) Exemprion ror CERTAIN INTERESTS
HEtD BY CERTAIN CHARITABLE ORGANIZA-
Tions.—If an economic interest in crude
oll—

“(1) is held by an organization—

“(A) described in clause (ii), (ili), or (iv)
of section 170(b) (1) (A) that is not described
in clause (vil) or (vill) of such section, and

“(B) which—

“(1) held that interest on October 24, 1979,
and at all times during the period
on that date and ending on the last date of
the taxable period, or

“(ii) received that interest by bequest
after October 24, 1979, or

“(2) is held by an organization described
in clause (i) of section 170(b)(1)(A) for
the benefit of an organization described in
paragraph (1)(A) of this subsection, and if
all proceeds from such interest were dedi-
cated to an organization described in para-
graph (1)(A) of this subsection, on Octo-
ber 24, 1979, and at all times during the
period beginning on that date and ending
on the last day of the taxable period.
then no tax shall be imposed by section 4986
with respect to crude oil properly allocable
to such interest.

“(1) ADJUSTMENT oF ReMOvAL Price.—In
determining the removal price of ofl from a
property in the case of any transaction, the
Secretary may adjust the removal price to
reflect clearly the fair market value of oil
removed.

“Sec. 4993. PHASEOUT oF Tax.

“(a) EsTIMATEs BY SECRETARY.—

“(1) IN GENERAL.—Each month the Secre-
tary shall make an estimate, on the basis of
the best data available as of the time of the
estimate, of the target fraction as of the last
day of the succeeding month.

“(2) Pusiication.—Not later than the last
day of the month in which the Secretary

en en dis, we ee

oe cree

‘op
eee ee. ee Ee
succeeding month will equal 9/10 or more,
the Secretary shall publish notice in the
Federal Register that—

“(A) such target fraction will equal 9/10
or more for the succeeding month, and

“(B) the provisions of subsection (b)
shall apply with respect to crude oil removed
from the premises in any month after the
target base month.

“(b) PHasrouT EXEMPTION.—

“(1) Is GEeNeRaL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, no tax shall
be imposed by section 4986 with respect to
that portion of taxable crude oil removed
from the premises in any month beginning
after the target base month as is equal to
the product of—

“(A) the total amount of taxable crude oil
removed from the premises during such
month (determined without regard to this
section),
multiplied by

“(B) a percentage (not greater than 100)
equal to the product of—

“(1) 3 percent, multiplied by

“(11) the number of months (including the
month for which the computation is being
made) beginning after the target base
month.

“(2) ALLOCATION RULES—The determina-
tion of which barrels of crude oil removed
during any month are exempt from tax by
reason of this section shall be made—

“(A) first by allocating the amount of the
oil determined to be exempt under paragraph
(1) between oll which (but for this section)
would be tier 1 oll, of] which (but for this
section) would b& tier 2 ofl, and oil which
(but for this section) would be tier 3 oil in
proportion to the respective amounts of such
oil removed from the property during such
month, and

“(B) then by taking into account barrels
of crude oil so removed in the order of their
respective removal prices beginning with the
highest of such prices. P

“(c) DeErinrTions.—For purposes of this
section—

“(1) TaRceT FRacTion.—The term ‘target
fraction’ means a fraction—

“(A) the numerator of which is the net
amount of revenue attributable to the tax
imposed under section 4986 (other than any
revenue attributable to an economic interest
in crude oil held by the Federal Govern-
ment) during the period beginning on Jan-
uary 1, 1980, and ending on the last day of
the month for which an estimate is being
made under subsection (a)(1), and

“(B) the denominator of which is $141,-
200,000,000.

“(2) Tarcer BASE MONTH.—The term ‘tar-
get base month’ means the first month for
which the Secretary estimates under sub-
section (a)(1) that the target fraction dur-
ing such ‘month, will equal 9/10 or more.
“Sec. 4994. Reconps AND INFORMATION; REG-

ULATIONS.

“(a) Recorps aNp InrorMatTion.—Each
taxpayer lable for tax under section 4986,
each partnership, trust, or estate producing
domestic crude oil, each purchaser of domes-
tic crude oll, and each operator of a well
from which domestic crude ofl was produced,
shall keep such records, make such returns,
and furnish such information with respect to
such oil as the Secretary may by regulations
prescribe.

“(b) Recutations.—The Secretary shall
prescribe such regulations as may be neces-
sary to carry out the purpose of this chapter,
including such changes in the application of
the energy regulations for purposes of this
chapter as may be necessary or appropriate
to carry out such purposes.

“Src. 4995. Cross REFERENCES.

“(1) For additions to the tax and additional
amount for failure to file tax return or to
pay. see section 6651.
“(2) For additions to the tax and addi-
tional amounts for failure to file certain
information returns, registration statements,
etc., see section 6652.

“(8) For additions to the tax and addi-
tional amounts for fraud, see section 6653
(b).
“(4) For additions to the tax and addi-
tional amounts for failure to make deposit
of taxes, see section 6656. :

“(5) For additions to the tax and addi-
tional amounts for failure to collect and pay
over tax, or attempt to evade or defeat tax,
see section 6672.

“(6) For criminal penalties for attempt
to evade or defeat tax, willful failure to col-
lect or pay over tax, willful failure to file
return, supply information, or pay tax, and
for fraud and false statements, see sections
7201, 7202, 7203, and 7206.

“(7) For criminal penalties for failure to
furnish certain information regarding wind-
fall profit tax on domestic crude oil, see sec-
tion 7241.”.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
chapters for subtitle D is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following new item:
“CrHaptTer 45. Windfall profit tax on domestic

crude oil.”.

(b) Depuctasmiry oF WINDFALL PrRoFiT
‘Tax.—The first sentence of section 164(a)
(relating to deduction for taxes) is amended
by inserting after paragraph (4) the following
new paragraph:

“(5) The windfall profit tax imposed by
section 4986.”.

(c) Tre For Fruinc RerurN OF WINDFALL
Prorir Tax; Depostrory REQUIREMENTS,—

(1) TrMe FOR FILING RETURN OF WINDPALL
PROFIT TAX.—

(A) Part V of subchapter A of chapter 61
(relating to time for filing returns and other.
documents) is amended by adding at the end
thereof the following new section:

“Sec. 6076. Time For FrLinc RETURN OF WIND-
FALL Prorir Tax.

“(a) Genera. Ruie.—Each return of the
tax imposed by section 4986 (relating to wind-
fall profit tax) for any taxable period (within
the meaning of section 4992(b)(7)) shall be
filed not later than the last day of the second
month following the close of the taxable

“(b) Cross REFERENCE.—

“For depositary requirements applicable to
the tax imposed by section 4986, see section
6302(d)).”.

(B) The table of sections for such part V is
amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new item:

“Sec. 6076. Time for filing return of windfall
profit tax.”.

(2) Depostrrory REQUIREMENTS.—Section
6302 (relating to mode or time of collection)
is amended by redesignating subsection (d)
as subsection (e) and by inserting after sub-
section (c) the following new subsection:

“(d) Winprat, Prorrr Tax.—The mode
and time for collecting the tax imposed by
section 4986 (relating to windfall profit tax)
shall be established by the Secretary by
regulations.”.

(3) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—

(A) Subsection (a) of section 6656 (relat-
ing to penalty for failure to make deposit of
taxes) is amended by inserting “or 6302(d)”
immediately after “section 6302(c)”.

(B) Section 7512 (relating to separate ac-
counting for certain collected taxes, etc.) is
amended—

(1) by striking out “or by chapter 33” in
subsections (a) and (b) and inserting in lieu
peg “, by chapter 33, or by section 4986",

(il) by striking out “or chapter 33” in sub-
sections (b) and (c) and inserting in lieu
thereof “, chapter 33, or section 4986”.

‘> 2b bel ee ae

Payee

wo

rte
(a) CERTAIN InrorMaTion Require To BE
ED.—

(1) GeweraL rvte.—Subpart B of part OT
of subchapter A of chapter 61 (relating to in-
formation concerning transactions with
other persons) is amended by adding at the
end thereof the following new section:
“Src. 6050C. INFORMATION FURNISHED BY OP-

“(a) CERTIFICATIONS FURNISHED BY OPER-
aTor.—Under regulations prescribed by the
Secretary, the operator of the well from
which crude oil subject to the tax imposed
under section 4986 was produced shall cer-
tify (at such time and in such manner as
the Secretary shall by regulations prescribe)
to the purchaser, or, if the producer is re-
quired to pay the tax under section 4992(c)
(5), to the producer—

“(1) the base price (within the meaning
of section 4990) with respect to such crude
oil,

“(2) whether any part of the production
of such crude oil is exempt from the tax im-
posed under section 4986 by reason of section
4988(a) (1), (2), or (3), was from a property
described in section 4991(d) (2) (C),

“(3) the type of property,

“(4) the base production control level for
the property, and

“(5) such other information as the Secre-
tary by regulation may require.

For purposes of section 6652(b) (relating to

additions to tax for failure to file other re-

turns), such certification shall be treated as

a statement of a payment to another person.

“(b) Cross REFERENCES.—

“(1) For additions to tax for failure to
furnish information required under this sec-
tion, see section 6652(b).

“(2) For penalty for willful failure to sup-
ply information required under this section,
see section 7241.”.

(2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—

(A) Section 6652(b) is amended by strik-
ing out “or section 6051(d)" and inserting in
lieu thereof the following: “section 6050C
(relating to information regarding windfall
profit tax on domestic crude oil), or section
6051(d)”.

(B) The table of sections for subpart B of
part III of subchapter A of chapter 61 is
amended by adding at the end thereof the
following new item:

“Sec. 60500. Information furnished by oper-
ator regarding windfall profit
tax on domestic crude oil.”.

(e) CrrmInaL PENALTY FoR FatLure To
PuRNISH CERTAIN INFORMATION.—

(1) In Generat.—Part II of subchapter A
of chapter 75 (relating to penalties applicable
to certain taxes) is amended by adding at
the end thereof the following new section:
“Sec. 7241. WimLLFUL FatLurE To FURNISH

CerTAIN INFORMATION REGARD-
ING WINDFALL Prorir Tax oN
Domestic Crupe Om.

“Any person who is required under section
6050C (or regulations thereunder) to furnish
any information or certification to any other
person and who willfully fails to furnish
such information or certification at the time
or times required by law or regulations, shall,
in addition to other penalt’2s provided by
law, be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than
1 year, or both, together with the costs of
prosecution.”.

(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for such part II is amended by add-
ing at the end thereof the following new

mn :

“

>t Pe Be ono
“Sec. 7241. Willful failure to furnish
information regarding windfall
profit tax on domestic crude
ofl.”.

(f) Dericrency Procepures.—Subchapter B
of chapter 63 (relating to deficiency proce-
dures ‘in the case of income, estate, gift, and
certain excise taxes) is amended—

(1) by striking out “and 44,” each place it
appears and inserting in lieu thereof “44, and
45,”,

(2) by striking out “or 44,” each place it
ap} and inserting in lieu thereof “44, or
45,", and

(3) by inserting “or of chapter 45 tax for
the same taxable period,” immediately be-
fore “except in the case of fraud”.

(g) Extension or STaTuTE OF LIMITATIONS
WHERE PROPERTY on Ort Is RECLASSIFIED.—

(1) Assessment.—Section 6501 (relating
to limitations on assessment and collection)
is amended by redesignating the second sub-
section (q) as (r) and by adding at the end
of such section the following new subsection:

“(s) EXTENSION FoR CHAPTER 45 LiaBILITy
ATTRIBUTABLE TO RECLASSIFICATION.—In the
case of a return of the tax imposed under
chapter 45 (relating to windfall profit tax
on domestic crude oil), if the classification
under the June 1979 energy regulations (as
defined in section 4992(b) (8) (C)) of a prop-
erty or of domestic crude oil from a property
with respect to which a tax is imposed under
chapter 45 is changed, then the tax may be
assessed at any time before the date which
is 1 year after the date on which such
change became effective.”.

(2) Rerunp.—Section 6511 (relating to
limitations on credit or refund) is amended
by redesignating subsection (h) as (i) and
by inserting after subsection (g) the fol-
lowing new subsection:

“(h) SPecIAL RULE ror CHapter 45 Taxes.—
In the case of any tax imposed by chapter
45 with respect to domestic crude oll, the
period for filing a claim for credit or refund
of any overpayment attributable to a re-
classification of the oil or of the property
from which the oil was produced with re-
spect to which the tax was determined shall
not expire before the date which is one year
after the date on which such reclassifica-
tion became effective.”.

(h) OVERPAYMENTS oF Tax.—

(1) OVERPAYMENT OF TAX MAY BE CREDITED
\GAINST INCOME TAX LIABILITY OR TREATED AS
OVERPAYMENT THEREOF.—Subsection (a) of
section 6402 (relating to authority to make
credits or refunds) is amended by adding
at the end thereof the following: “For pur-
poses of the preceding sentence, an overpay-
ment of the tax imposed by chapter 45
may, under regulations prescribed by the
Secretary, be credited against any Mability
in respect of a tax imposed by chapter 1
on the part of the person Mable for the pay-
ment under section 4986(b), and the balance
may be refunded to such person.”.

(2) InreREsT ON ovERPAYMENTS.—Section
3611 (relating to interest on overpayment)
S amended by redesignating subsection (h)
as (i), and by inserting after subsection
(g) the following new subsection:

“(h) Wrnpracy Prorrr Tax REFUND WITHIN
{5 Days AFrrer RETuRN Is FiLep.—If any over-
oayment of tax imposed by chapter 45 is
efunded within 45 days after the last date
yrescribed for filing the return of the tax
mposed by chapter 1 for the taxable year
vith or within which the taxable period,
with respect to which the overpayment was
nade, ends (determined without regard to
yny extension of time for filing the re-
urn) or, in case the return is filed after
such last date, is refunded within 45 days
after the date the return is filed, no inter-
st shall be allowed under subsection (a)
on such overpayment.”.
(i) Tentative REFUND ADJUSTMENT FOR
OVERPAYMENT ATTRIBUTABLE TO NET INCOME
LIMITATION.—

(1) In cenerat.—Subchapter B of chapter
65 (relating to abatements, credits, and re-
funds) is amended by adding at the end
thereof the following new section:

“Sec. 6429. OVERPAYMENTS OF WINDFALL
Prorir Tax

“(a) GENERAL RULE.—A producer (as de-
fined in section 4992(a)) who makes, or is
treated under chapter 45 as making, an over-
payment of the tax imposed by section 4986
for a taxable period, may file an application
for a tentative refund of any amount attrib-
utable to the application of section 4989(b)
(3), 4991(d) (2) (B) (11), or 4992 (£), (g), or
(h) and treated as an overpayment of the
tax for the taxable year with or within which
that taxable period ends. The application
shall be in such manner and form as the
Secretary may prescribe by regulation and
shall—

“(1) be verified in the same manner as an
application under section 6411(a),

“(2) be filed during the period beginning
on the earliest date on which the return may
be filed for such taxable year and ending on
the date 12 months from the last day of such
year, and

“(3) shall set forth in such detail and
with such supporting data as the Secretary
may require—

“(A) the amount of the tax for such tax-
able period computed without regard to the
application of section 4986(b)(3), 4991(d)
(2) (B) (11), or 4992 (f), (g), or (hh),

“(B) the amount determined under such
section for the taxable period,

“(C) the amount of the overpayment at-
tributable to the application of such section,
and

“(D) such other information as the Secre-
tary may require.

“(b) ALLOWANCE oF ADJUSTMENTS.—Within
& period of 90 days from the later of the date
on which an application is filed under sub-
section (a), or the last day of the month in
which falls the last date prescribed by law
(including any extension of time granted
the taxpayer) for filing the return for the
taxable year with or within which the taxable
period, in which the overpayment occurs,
ends, the Secretary shall—

“(1) review the application,

“(2) determine the amount of the over-
payment, and

“(3) apply, credit, or refund such overpay-
ment in a manner similar to the manner pro-
vided in section 6411(b).

“(c) ConsoLipaTEeD RETURNS.—Rules similar
to the rules under section 6411(¢) shall apply
to an adjustment under this subsection to
the extent and in the manner prescribed by
the Secretary by regulation.

“(d) APPLICATION NoT TREATED as CLAIM FOR
Creprr orn REFUND.—An application under
this section shall not be treated as a claim for
@ credit or refund.”.

(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Subsection
(c) of section 6405 (relating to tentative ad-
justments) is amended—

(A) by inserting “or 6429” immediately
after “section 6411”, and

(B) by striking out “In any such case,”
and inserting in Meu thereof “In the case of
& credit or refund allowed or made under
section 6411,”.

(3) CuertcaAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for such subchapter is amended by
ae at the end thereof the following new

“Sec. 6429. ihadin bo 3h) of windfall profit
(J) Evrective Date.—The amendments

made by this section shall take effect on
January 1, 1980.
Sec. 102. PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE TAX
Court.

(@) ExctUsive Jurispicrion Over WINDFALL
Prorir Tax CasEs.—Section 7442 (relating to
jurisdiction) is amended by adding at the
end thereof the following new sentence:
“Nothwithstanding section 1340 of title 28,
United States Code, the Tax Court and its
divisions shall have exclusive original juris-
diction of any civil action arising under
chapter 45 (relating to windfall profit tax on
domestic crude oil). In all proceedings in
connection with such actions, the Tax Court
shall have the same powers as a United States
District Court would have in a civil action
brought before it.”.

(b) Nomser or Jupces.—Subsection (a) of
section 7443 (relating to membership) is
amended by striking out “16” and inserting
in lieu thereof “19”.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
in order to give the various Senators and
their staffs ample time in which to work
on the various aspects that have been
discussed, I should like to see if it might
be possible to take up the bill which was
to have been taken up on Saturday. I
hope it will be possible to take up the
bill S. 1918, since we have a window in
the day on tomorrow and, hopefully, dis-
pose of that bill. It is under a time agree-
ment. If I do that, it will be with the
understanding that the Senate will not
stay on that bill any longer than, prob-
ably, 1 o’clock. I assure the Senator that
that will be done, because, before we go
out today, I shall make the pending ex-
cess profits tax the unfinished business.
That means that a call for the regular
order will at any time bring down any
other bill.

Mr, BRADLEY. May I ask the major-
ity leader, what is the time agreement
on the bill?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The time
agreement on the bill is as follows: There
will be debate limited to 3 hours on the
bill and debate on any amendment would
be limited to 30 minutes, except on an
Armstrong amendment of 40 minutes.

The Senator can be assured that the
bill I hope to bring up, if the managers
on both sides are ready to work on it
tomorrow, will not be an obstacle to
progress on the excess profits tax bill.
Because, as I say, the excess profits tax
bill will be brought back up tomorrow
at any time that the managers are ready
to go and the problems have been worked
out. We would have an understanding
that whatever action remains on 8S. 1918
would go over until further time.

Mr. BRADLEY. I have no objection.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I thank the
Senator.

Also, we are having some problems, I
understand, in connection with budget
waivers. I want to address this question
to the distinguished Senator from Maine
(Mr. Muskie.)

I understand there is a problem in
connection with the budget waiver, a
problem in relation to S. 1648, a bill to
provide for improving the Nation’s air-
port and airway system.

I had scheduled that bill for the first
thing Saturday morning. What is the
prospect for a budget waiver in time to
take that up on Saturday morning?

eR

RE a PRR ee ra eee
Mr. MUSKIE. Let me advise tne ais-
tinguished majority leader that there
are some problems with respect to the
budget waiver. I have discussed those
with Senator Cannon and we are in the
process, as I understand it, of trying to
work out, if we can, a resolution of those
problems.

In the meantime, two members of the
Budget Committee have requested a
Budget Committee meeting to discuss
those problems and it does not seem like-
ly we could hold that meeting before
Monday.

Normally, we hold these whenever we
can, as the majority leader knows.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes.

Mr. MUSKIE. Whenever a member
requests meetings, we try to hold them.

It may be that the requested meeting
may be aborted if we can resolve the
problem. So I will know better tomor-
row.

But, at the moment, I see no bright
prospect that we could resolve the
waiver problems before Saturday.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Very well.

I thank the Senator. It will help the
leadership have a better understand-
ing of what the prospects might be and,
in turn, help the membership.

Mr. DOLE addressed the Chair.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I will yield
to the Senator briefly. I just want to
tie down the other bill, if I can, for action
on tomorrow.

Mr. DOLE. Will the Senator yield me
1 minute to introduce an amendment on
gasohol, and to indicate that the other
cosponsor (Mr. BayH) will be coming
to = floor later to speak on the amend-
ment.

Can I have 1 minute without the Sena-
tor losing his right to the floor?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Certainly. It
is for printing and calling up at a later
time.

Mr. DOLE. Just for printing.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes. I yield for
that purpose.

AMENDMENT NO. 718

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, I send to
the desk for printing an amendment by
the Senator from Kansas and Senators
Bayu, PACK WOOD, TALMADGE, EXON, PERCY,
CHurcH, McGovern, STEWART, Baucus,
and NELSON.

Mr. President, there has been much
effort put into finding a new approach
to assisting the development of the gaso-
hol industry, primarily by Senators
Packwoop and Baru, and others.

Mr. President, in recent weeks, there
has been considerable concern expressed
about the gasohol provisions of the Fi-
nance Committee substitute. This con-
cern has come from farm groups, from
both large and small alcohol fuel manu-
facturers, from alcohol fuel dealers and
from gasohol marketers—in short, from
every segment of the rapidly growing
gasohol industry. Generally, these groups
strongly oppose the provisions of the bill
that would repeal the current Federal
excise tax exemption for gasohol as of
January 1, 1980. Some concern was also
expressed that the present Finance Com-
mittee bill does make it clear that the
credit will be available to farmers who
produce ethanol for unblended farm use
or to those who use 100-percent alcohol
for industrial engines or boiler fuel use.

There has also been considerable con-
cern expressed by members of the Budget
and Appropriation Committees about the
refundable nature of the gasohol credit
contained in the Finance Committee bill.
On the other hand, it was recognized
that there was considerable value in the
flexibility provided by the tax credit con-
tained in the Finance Committee sub-
stitute.

In a bipartisan effort, a number of
Senators and their staffs have diligently
attempted to develop a compromise pro-
posal which addresses all of the concerns
expressed.

I am pleased to have Senators Baru,
Packwoop, TALMADGE, Exon, PERCY,
Cuurcu, McGovern, Stewart, Baucus,
and NELson as cosponsors of this com-
promise proposal. I am hopeful that
other Members will wish to join in this
amendment. Essentially, the compromise
proposal will do the following:

First. It will retain the current Federal
excise tax exemption for gasohol and
extend it through 2000.

Second. For alcohol fuel uses not eli-
gible for the excise tax exemption, the
proposal would provide a nonrefund-
able tax credit to the blender or user.
The amount of this credit would be: 40
cents per gallon for alcohol fuel above
190 proof; 30 cents per gallon for alco-
hol fuel between 150 and 190 proof; and
10 cents per gallon for alcohol made
from coal.

Third. The proposal would also pro-
vide that a person purchasing tax-paid
gasoline that is used in the production
of tax-exempt gasohol may receive a
payment equivalent to the amount of ex-
cise tax paid.

Fourth. The proposal requires the Sec-
retary of Treasury to make recom-
mendations within 180 days of enact-
ment as to what methods, if any, may be
used to limit the importing of alcohol for
fuel purposes.

Mr. President, I believe this amend-
ment is a great improvement on the Fi-
nance Committee bill and I hope it will
be speedily adopted as a part of the wind-
fall bill.

Mr. President, I want to add, as a prin-
cipal sponsor, Senator McC.ure also has
been in the forefront of this bipartisan
effort to develop the alcohol fuels indus-
try.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the Recorp a
summary-by-summary explanation of
the bill.

There being no objection, the summary
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

ANALYSIS OF AMENDMENT No. 718 CONCERNING
ALCOHOL Furs
PRESENT LAW

If motor fuel is a blend of gasoline, or
other motor fuel, and alcohol and the fuel is
at least 10 percent alcohol (other than alco-
hol derived from petroleum, natural gas, or
coal), it is exempted from the Federal excise
taxes on motor fuels on or after January 1,
1979, and before October 1, 1984.
FINANCE COMMIDIE“R ACTION

A refundable income tax credit is pro-
vided to the producer of 40 cents a gallon on
domestically produced alcohol (other than
alcohol produced from petroleum, natural
gas, or coal) used or sold for use in motor
fuels and 10 cents a gallon on alcohol made
from coal and used or sold for use in motor
fuels. An advance refund is available once
during each of the first 3 quarters of the tax-
payer's taxable year if the amount payable is
at least $1,000.

The current Federal excise tax exemption
for alcohol fuels is repealed as of January 1,
1980.

PROPOSAL

The proposal would extend the current ex-
cise tax exemption for fuels which are at
least 10 percent alcohol until January 1, 2000
(and make certain technical amendments).
In all other cases where alcohol is used as a
fuel (either blended or straight) of a type
suitable for use in an internal combustion
engine, a credit would be provided to the
blender or user. It would be 40 cents per
gallon for most alcohol of at least 190 proof,
30 cents per gallon for alcohol between 150
and 190 proof, and 10 cents per gallon for
alcohol made from coal. The credit would be
nonrefundable and no advance payment
would be provided. The credit allowed for the
prior taxable year would be includable in in-
come. The credit will became effective on
Oct. 1, 1980. (A similar provision is in the
committee substitute.)

The credit and the excise tax exemption
would be available for fuels containing im-
ported alcohol.

If a person purchases tax-paid gasoline
which is used in the production of tax-
exempt gasohol, the person may obtain a
refundable income tax credit or a payment
(if the amount is $200 or more during any
of the first 3 quarters of the taxable year)
of the taxes paid on such gasoline. (This is
identical with the provisions of S. 1746, as
introduced by Senator Bayh, except for the
expiration date.)

The proposal requires the Secretary of the
Treasury to make recommendations within
180 days of enactment as to what methods,
if any, may be used to limit the importation
of alcohol for fuel purposes. (The proposal
contains the same amendments to the dis-
tilled spirits provisions as are contained in
the committee substitute.)

REVENUE EFFECT

When compared with existing law, this
proposal results in a revenue loss of $2 mil-
lion in calendar year 1980 and $1,816 million
in the period 1980-1990. There would not be
any revenue effect for fiscal year 1980.

‘When compared with the provisions of the
committee substitute, the proposal results in
@ revenue loss of $22 million in calendar year
1980 and a revenue loss of $105 million for
the period 1980-1990.

Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, we believe
we have now worked out many problems
with the Finance Committee bill that
were brought to the attention of the Na-
tional Alcohol Fuels Commission, of
which the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BayH) is chairman, and the Senator
from Kansas is a member.

We have had hearings across the coun-
try, recently in the State of Kansas. At
that hearing, some farmers expressed
concern about the tax credit in the Fi-
nance Committee bill. I think, we now
have found a proposal with more flexi-
bility that should answer the concerns of
nearly everyone involved.

@ Mr. PERCY. Mr. President, I com-
mend Senator Doxe for introducing this

Ree, Me tr

important amenament Wal exvends Whe
existing excise tax exemption for gasohol.
It also includes a blender or user credit
for all other alcohol used in fuels. And I
am pleased to speak in support of this
amendment.

It has been just over 2 years ago when
Senator Dore and I introduced the 4-cent
Federal excise tax exemption amendment
that is now law. Its purpose was to pro-
vide a much-needed catalyst to get the
alcohol production industry underway by
making the price competitive at the
pump to increase consumer demand for
gasohol. After a year of implementation,
the excise tax exemption has proven to
be useful in encouraging more people to
produce alcohol, and it has raised the
American public’s consciousness level to
accept gasohol as a motor fuel.

The largest production plant in the
country is in my home State. Recently
this producer doubled its own production
of alcohol from 50,000 gallons a day to
100,000 gallons a day, and they hope to
increase it to 150,000 gallons a day by the
end of this year. This plant, in particular,
has the capacity to produce 400,000 gal-
lons a day, but is increasing production
slowly to make sure that the demand is
there to justify the investment.

The best and most logical way for the
Federal Government to help out is to pro-
vide a stable tax policy that they can
count on—not one that changes from
year to year. This will also keep the price
competitive with conventional fuels.

That is why this amendment is so im-
portant. Not only must we put it back in,
but we must also extend it. With our
growing dependence on foreign oil, we
must improve upon existing measures
which give us a viable alternative. This
amendment does just that.e

Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I am pleased
to join with Senator Dore today, along
with Senators Exon, Packwoop, Tat-
MADGE, CHURCH, McGoveRN, STEWART,
Percy, Baucus, Netson, McCrure, and
Morcan in introducing this amendment
to H.R. 3919, the Crude Oil Windfall
Profits Tax Act. Our amendment is a
substitute for the language on gasohol
originally adopted by the Finance Com-
mittee during markup on H.R. 3919. As
drafted by the committee, the gasohol
provisions in H.R. 3919 would have ended
the existing excise tax exemption for
gasohol at the end of this year and sub-
stituted in its place a 40-cent refundable
tax credit to producers. In subsequent
discussions with Finance Committee
members, as well as those involved in
alcohol production and sales, many of us
with an interest in gasohol felt that the
substitute we are now offering would be
an improvement over the language origi-
nally incorporated into H.R. 3919. I am
very glad we have arrived at this com-
promise, which I believe will continue to
stimulate alcohol production and distri-
bution, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port it when it is brought up for

consideration.
EXTENSION OF THE EXCISE TAX EXEMPTION
The first part of this amendment, Mr.
President, is an extension to the year
. 2000 of the excise tax exemption for gas-
| ohol that was originally enacted in the
1978 energy tax bill. This exemptior
was designed to last for 5 years, unti
the end of 1984. However, since the pas
sage of this legislation, we have becom
aware of the fact that the limited dura
tion of the exemption created uncer
tainty among private sector investor:
who were considering capital investment
in alcohol fuel production facilities
Lending institutions were also hesitant t
provide long-term financing that woulc
outlive the duration of the Federal ta:
benefit. The retention of the exemption
and extension through 2000, is responsiv
to the need for an assured long tern
Federal tax policy on gasohol and as:-
sures that this incentive will be passec
along to consumers. As I wrote to Sena-
tor Lona, on October 22, after the Fi-
nance Committee had adopted the pro-
duction credit, there was widespreac
concern, which I shared, that the 40-cent
producer credit would not necessarily be
reflected in retail prices. I am very grati-
fied that we have all been able to reach
agreement to retain the excise tax ex-
emption, which has, I believe, been re-
sponsible for the momentum we have
achieved toward the establishment of a
nationwide gasohol sales network. Ex-
tension of the exemption to the year
2000 should also remove the uncertainty
currently facing investors and lending
institutions with respect to financing al-
cohol facilities and provide an added
boost to alcohol production.
ALCOHOL PRODUCTION CREDIT

In addition to extending the excise tax
exemption, our amendment would ex-
tend a 40-cent production credit to al-
cohol producers manufacturing alcohol
for end uses which cannot benefit from
the excise tax exemption. What we have
in mind here, Mr. President, is a credit
comparable to the 4-cent excise tax ex-
emption for gasohol, a 90-10 motor fuel,
for alcohol fuels which are not eligible for
the exemption. In particular, we have in
mind farmers producing alcohol for on-
farm uses, or manufacturers producing
methanol from wood, or municipal
waste, which will not be used in motor
fuels—but may be used for other end
uses, such as utility peaking units or
boilers, which are not affected by the ex-
cise tax exemption. Thus, while the ex-
cise tax exemption would still obtain for
all those eligible for it, our amendment
would make a comparable tax benefit
available for alcohol fuels not covered by
the excise tax exemption.

I have long felt that alcohol is a ver-
satile fuel, which can substitute for
crude oil products in a number of set-
tings. This 40-cent credit should stimu-
late diverse uses of alcohol, thus increas-
ing its potential for cutting back on pe-
troleum consumption.

In addition, this credit would be avail-
able for alcohol that is produced to be
blended into gasoline in proportions
other than a 90-10 blend, the only prod-
uct which is now eligible for the excise
tax exemption. This would cover the
situation, for example, where a refiner
wanted to use alcohol primarily as an
octane booster. In this situation, it is

not necessary to blend in 10 percent al-
cohol to achieve the desired effect. Using
Cromer in

O'S

ce EP BUS Fe SS ee re ee, 8 ee

= SS eS

5 Bi ee ae te i tt

alcohol as an octane booster not only dis
places a small amount of gasoline, bu
also cuts down on refiners use of crud
oil to boost the octane level of unleadec
gasoline, an increasingly troublesom:
problem for refiners. By permitting th:
40-cent-per-gallon credit for alcohol,
gasoline blends of less than 90-10, we wil
be encouraging the use of alcohol as ar
octane booster—a procedure whict
makes absolutely good sense.

In sum, Mr. President, by combining
the excise tax exemption with a 40-cen'
credit for those not eligible for the
former credit, we will be stimulating the
use of alcohol, instead of petroleum, for
nonmotor fuel uses without endangering
the progress we have made through the
existence of the excise tax exemption, a
tax benefit that automatically gets
passed along to consumers under our
gasoline pricing regulations.

REGULATORY SIMPLIFICATION

The need for regulatory simplification
is pressing, Mr. President, and provisions
of S. 1200 incorporated by the Finance
Committee into H.R. 3919, are also in-
cluded in this amendment. These provi-
sions directly address barriers to produc-
tion and distribution of alcohol fuels
caused by Federal redtape and paper-
work. These provisions respond to a
demonstrated need; they are supported
by the administration as well as the Fi-
nance Committee; and deserve the sup-
port of the full Senate and House.

Existing Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
and Firearms regulations were designed
to apply to alcohol produced for use as a
beverage or industrial feedstock, and not
as a fuel. They are not designed to meet
the needs of farmers interested in on-
farm production of alcohol, or joint com-
munity or cooperative efforts to build
small stills to meet local market demand,
and they do not take into consideration
the unique characteristics of the infant
alcohol fuels industry. Unfortunately,
the complexity of existing regulations
has too often produced frustrating, ir-
ritating and time-consuming delays for
those wanting to get started in the field,
or placed heavy regulatory burdens on
potential producers.

The language included in our amend-
ment embodies the text of S. 1200, the
Alcohol Fuels Regulatory Simplification
Act of 1979, which I introduced along
with 20 of my colleagues earlier this year.
To make gasohol production and use a
widespread reality, the amendment will
permit the Secretary of the Treasury to
waive some regulations and simplify
others, which are unnecessary when al-
cohol is being produced for use as an
energy source.

This legislation was mandated by pro-
visions in the 1978 Energy Tax Act which
required the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms to send legislation to Con-
gress recommending changes in current
BATF regulations on alcohol to be used
for energy purposes. As drafted by the
Treasury Department, the new regula-
tions would divide producers into three
categories—small, medium and large
producers—with regulations varying ac-
cording to the size of the facility. Regu-
latory requirements would be further ad-
justed depending on the ability of th
producers to comply and the risk ¢
revenue loss to the Government. For ex
ample, under the regulations drafted b
the Department, small producers woul
no longer be required to post a bond, a re
quirement which has proven to be an ob
stacle to many individuals seeking t
produce small quantities of alcohol fo
use as a fuel.

This provision will be particularly val
uable for farmers desiring to produc
alcohol on their own farms to meet thei
own energy needs. The Treasury Depart
ment is currently issuing permits, unde
temporary and experimental authorit;
for such purposes. The number of appli
cations for small scale production has in
creased dramatically, and presents fur
ther evidence of the growing interest i
the country for gasohol and alcohol fuel
generally. I shall ask unanimous con
sent that the proposed Treasury Depart
ment regulations and related material
pursuant to S. 1200 be printed in th
Recorp at the conclusion of my remarks

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Withou
objection, it is so ordered.

(See exhibit 1.)

REFUND MECHANISM FOR EXCISE TAXES PAID

Mr, BAYH. Mr. President, our amend
ment also includes the tax refund provi
sions of S. 1746, legislation I introduced
earlier this year to permit gasohol dis
tributors who purchase tax paid gaso
line to receive excise tax refunds du
them by the Treasury Department unde
the exemption but denied them becaus:
of a lack of authority on the part of thi
Department to make such refunds. Ou
amendment would permit the marketer:
to receive a refund for the total amoun
of the Federal excise tax paid to thei
supplier for gasoline that is eventuall
used to make gasohol.

This is clearly the intent of the Con-
gress, and is being stymied by an unan-
ticipated lack of authority on the par
of Treasury. In this case, we woulc
merely be returning to the markete!
taxes already paid, but meant to be
exempt under the excise tax exemption
Without this provision, many small in-
dependent businessmen will be unable
to market gasohol. Jobbers and service
station dealers are essential parts of the
gasohol network. Without addressing this
obvious and unintended inequity, we will
deny them the ability to market gasohol
and inevitably cut back on the amount
of gasohol sold. I submit for the informa-
tion of my colleagues a letter I have
received from the National Oil Jobbers
Council in support of these provisions.
I ask unanimous consent that it be
printed in the Recorp at this point. __

There being no objection, the letter
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

National Om Jopsers CouNcIL,
Washington, D.C., November 29, 1979,
Hon. BrmcH BarH,
U.S. Senate,
Russell Senate Office Building,
Washington, D.C.

Dear Senator BayH: On behalf of the Na-
tional Oil Jobbers Council, I wish to offer
NOJC'’s support for the compromise gasohol

amendment to be offered to H.R. 3919, the
Windfall Profits Tax bill. This amendment
ent tax credit ior aiconol procuction Sn
our amendment extending the 4 cent fed-
ral excise tax exemption for gasohol.

The most critical aspect of this amend-
nent for the independent smal] business pe-
roleum marketers represented by NOJC, is
he refund procedure for those marketers
yho buy gasoline tax paid from their sup-
lier. The compromise amendment would al-
ow those marketers to receive a refund for
he total amount of Federal excise tax paid
o their supplier for gasoline that is eventu-
lly used to make gasohol. The Treasury
rould merely be returning to the marketer
axes already paid. Without this provision
1any small independent businessmen will be
nable to market gasohol.

The National Oil Jobbers Council sincerely
ppreciates your efforts and those of your
taff on this issue. We stand ready to assist
2 final adoption of this compromise amend-
ent in whatever fashion most appropriate.

Respectfully,
PHIttr R. CHISHOLM,
Director of Legislative Affairs.
ALCOHOL IMPORTS

Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, we have ad-
itionally included language in this
mendment to clearly state that it is not
he intent of the Congress to subsidize
nported alcohol—a policy which would
e directly opposed to our efforts to
timulate a domestic alcohol fuels in-
ustry. The Finance Committee's origi-
al language limited the tax incentives
» domestic alcohol. Upon further con-
ideration of this issue, it was deter-
1ined that such a prohibition coexist-
ag with a retail level tax benefit would
un afoul of our trade agreements.

Alcohol for use as a fuel is not now
eing imported into this country. How-
ver, several large distillers and market-
rs have indicated an interest in doing
o, and under current law, and our
mendment, they would be able to bene-
it from the tax incentives our amend-
nent provides. In order to deal with this
roblem, we have included language in
his amendment requiring the Treasury
epartment to monitor this situation
losely and send a recommendation to
he Hill, within 6 months, as to how we
an continue with our tax incentive for
Icohol, produced from domestic feed-
tocks, but deny subsidies to imported
cohol. When we receive that recom-
nendation, I hope the Senate would
ake speedy action to prohibit subsidies
o imported alcohol.

ALCOHOL FROM COAL

Mr. President, this amendment also
xtends a 10-cent tax credit to alcohol
roduced from coal, of which we have
ybundant reserves in this country. Cur-
ent economics of ethanol and methanol
sroduction indicate that while tne 40-
-ent-per-gallon credit is an appropriate
mount for alcohol from renewable re-
sources, a 10-cent credit is sufficient for
cohol from coal. I have long favored
levelopment of both types of alcohol, as
vell as much more aggressive use of our
-oal resources than we have done to date,
ind am pleased with our action in this
egard.

DENATURANTS

Finally, Mr. President, our amendment
larifies an unfortunate situation which
as developed with respect to the use of
cohol, Tobacco, and Firearms Nas pro-
sed regulations that would permit
soline to be used as a denaturant for
cohol. This is not permitted under cur-
nt law. By removing this obstacle,
ATF will be able to implement their
‘oposed regulations. Estimates are that
is small change could reduce the cost
alcohol by about 4 cents per gallon.
ne Department fully supports our ef-
rts in this area, and alcohol producers
we indicated that this minor change
ill be an enormous boost to the industry
cause it would reduce alcohol costs
' 4 cents a gallon. Again, I am ex-
emely pleased that we were able to
al with this small but important prob-
m in this amendment.
In closing, Mr. President, I want to
iterate my strong satisfaction with the
mpromise we have worked out on this
nendment. It has been a pleasure to
ork on this with Senator Dote, Senator
<on, and other cosponsors. I think we
ive developed a proposal that is ex-
tly on target with respect to our desire
r a burgeoning alcohol fuels industry.
urge my other colleagues to support this
nendment when its is offered later on
_ the debate on H.R. 3919 and will fight
retain it in conference with the House.
Exursrr 1
The proposed bill would amend the In-
rnal Revenue Code of 1954 to vest in the
eretary the authority to simolify pursuant
regulation the present statutory controls
plicable to distilled spirits plants estab-
hed solely for producing distilled spirits
clusively for fuel use.
Over the past year or so considerable in-
rest has been expressed by persons to pro-
ce and use distilled spirits for fuel. The
mcept of using distilled spirits and blends
ntaining distilled spirits and gasolne as
otor fuel has been periodically discussed
nce World War I. Anticipating that exist-
g production of petroleum and gasoline
11 not remain static, experts have con-
antly sought alternate energy sources. Suc-
ssful experiments haye been made with
stilled spirits blended with gasoline as a
otor fuel. A notable recent example is the
»braska Gasohol Program, sponsored by the
sricultural Products Industrial Utilization
ymmittee of the State of Nebraska. The
fasohol” tested in the Nebraska program is
vorable. Others are also testing the ex-
inded use of gasohol and the Treasury De-
rtment has received numerous requests
meerning the possible establishment of
ants of varying sizes.
The Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (chap-
r 51) establishes a detailed regulatory
heme for distilled spirits plants and per-
ns involved in production of distilled
irits whether those spirits are intended for
verage or industrial use. The current regu-
tory scheme requires persons to follow
1alification procedures, including registra-
ons of distilled spirits plants, obtaining a
rmit for operation, and filing an opera-
onal bond and documents concerning con-
ruction and operation of the distilled spir-
5 plants. In addition, the scheme provides
r production of distilled spirits in a closed
stilling system which requires on-premises
ipervision, by a Government officer. Pres-
tly, distilled spirits can be withdrawn free
' distilled spirits excise tax ($10.50 per proof
ion) if it is first denatured by adding
rtain substances to render it unfit for bev-
age purposes.
The requirement in existing law that de-
aturing occur before the distilled spirits
epee Raje e pensagbe An, apr tere eg oe gee
-taxed paid distilled spirits to beverage
. The primary objective of the proposed
is to simplify pursuant to regulation the
sent statutory controls applicable to dis-
ed spirits plants establishing solely for
ducing distilled spirits exclusively for
1 use, while maintaining adequate safe-
rds to protect the revenue.
lew section 5181 will vest authority in the
retary to prescribe regulations for the
blishment of distilled spirits plants
lly for producing, processing, storing,
ng, and distributing distilled spirits ex-
sively for fuel use. The Secretary will
e the authority to waive by regulation
provision of chapter 51 to facilitate the
sblishment and operation of such distilled
its plants. For example, subsection (b)
1ld authorize the Secretary to minimize
_ present qualification requirements for
h distilled spirits plants and reduce the
ount of bond requirements otherwise ap-
“able to such an operation. However, the
retary will not have authority to waive
- payment of any tax provided for by
ter 51. Attached is the Treasury Depart-
nt’s proposed administrative action plan
ich sets forth the regulation envisioned
r distilled spirits plants established un-
the provisions of this bill.
subsection (c) will permit distilled spirits
duced exclusively for fuel use to be with-
wn free of tax pursuant to new section
4(a)(11). Subsection (d) prohibits the
hdrawal, use, sale, or disposition of dis-
ed spirits produced under the new sec-
n 5181 for other than fuel use. Addi-
nally, for the protection of the revenue,
section (d) requires that such spirits be
dered unfit for beverage use by addition
substances which will not impair the
ality of the spirits for fuel use under such
ulations as the Secretary shall prescribe
or to withdrawal from the bonded
mises of a distilled spirits plant. Distilled
rits which are improperly withdrawn,
1d, sold, or disposed of will be subject to
provisions of law relating to taxable dis-
ed spirits including those provisions im-
ing taxes and criminal penalties.
subsection (e) defines the term “distilled
rits” for purposes of section 5181 as not
include distilled spirits produced from
roleum, natural gas, or coal. Section 221
the Energy Tax Act of 1978 establishes an
mption in sections 4041(k) and 4081(c)
the Internal Revenue Code from the Fed-
1 motor fuels excise tax for fuels mixed
h “alcohol” which is defined as not in-
ding alcohol produced from petroleum,
tural gas, or coal. Additionally, section
of the Energy Tax Act of 1978 requires
» Treasury Department to recommend leg-
ition to simplify the regulation of persons
xiucing ethanol for use in producing gas-
ne or liquid fuel as described in section
l(c). Thus, the definition of “distilled
rits” in subsection (e) of section 5181
responds with the definition of “alcohol”
section 4081(c).
section 2 of the proposed bill amends sec-
n 5601(a) by adding a new paragraph (15)
provide criminal penalties for any person
o withdraws, uses, sells, or otherwise dis-
es of distilled spirits except as authorized
der section 5181. Section 3 adds a section
4(a)(11) to authorize the withdrawal
of tax of distilled spirits produced under
tion 5181. Because of the nature of the
hdrawal, free of tax, conforming amend-
nts of a technical nature in sections 4 and
re required to section 5004(a) (2)(B) re-
ing to termination of statutory Ilens on
rits withdrawn free of tax and section
5(d) relating to relief from tax Mability
en spirits are withdrawn free of tax.
n addition, section 5025, relating to ex-
ption from rectification tax, would be
make it clear that processing of distilled
spirits for fuel use under section 5181 would
not constitute rectification and thus be
taxable.

Across reference to new section 5025(m)
is added to section 5083, which lists exemp-
tions from taxes under sections 5021 and
5081.

The attached package is the proposed ad-
ministrative action plan setting forth the
regulations envisioned for distilled spirits
plants established under the provisions of
this bill. Following the passage of this legis-
lation this plan will be published in the form
of proposed regulations. Comments from the
Congress and the public as to possible im-
provements on this plan will be sought.

Basically, the plan defines the three cate-
gories of producers the Department antici-
pates will produce alcohol for fuel. Then,
the general requirements for all producers
are broadly outlined. The plan proceeds to
delineate the specified requirements for each
type of producer concerning the applica-
tion for a distilled spirits plant permit and
the bonding, security, and auditing require-
ments. The plan also explains the require-
ment to denature the alcohol and identifies
some approved denaturing methods. On ad-
dition, the ATF inspection and oversight is
described.

It is the Department’s intention to have
the regulatory package sufficiently devel-
oped to initiate the rulemaking process as
soon as Congress approves the waiver au-
thority. The Department estimates it will
require an additional four to six months
to finalize and implement the action plan.

ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION PLAN
CONTROL ON ALCOHOL FOR FUEL PLANTS

In the future, we anticipate that a diver-
sity of individuals and organizations will ap-
ply to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and
Firearms (ATF) for a permit to establish a
plant for the production of alcohol to be used
as a fuel. Some producers of this alcohol will
use it to produce gasohol—a mixture of alco-
hol and gasoline—that can be used as a fuel.
ATP desires to facilitate the production of
fuel alcohol, while at the same time, to mini-
mize resource costs for the individual and
the Government and to sustain ATF’s stat-
utory responsibilities and obligations.

We envision three potential categories or
sizes of gasohol producers. They are:

Small producers (producing less than 5,000
(100 proof) gallons of alcohol per annum),

Medium producers (producing less than
100,000 (100 proof) gallons of alcohol per
annum), and

Large producers (producing over 100,000
(100 proof) gallons per annum).

While specific ATF controls will vary at
each production level, all gasohol produc-
tion plants will be expected to:

File an application to obtain a permit to
operate an alcohol production plant.

(Except for the small producers) file a
surety bond to cover any tax Mability on the
alcohol produced.

Destroy the beverage character of the alco-
hol by adding gasoline, kerosene or other
approved chemicals.

Maintain security to prevent the diversion
of ane alcohol for purposes other than fuel
an

Maintain auditable records regarding pro-
duction and disposition of the alcohol.

Outlined below are the specific controls
for each level of production that ATF will
apply.

APPLICATION FOR PERMIT

Small Producer: This applicant will be
required to fill out a form (see Attachment
A) identifying the owner(s) and operator(s)
of the plant, the location of the plant, the

CxXXV——2140—Part 26
me pact the process.
Medium Producer: This applicant will sub-
mit the same application form as a small
producer.
“(a) Purposes.
. .

“(10 without payment of tax by a pro-
prietor of bonded premises for use in re-
search, development, or testing (other than
consumer testing or other market analysis)
of processes, systems, materials, or equip-
ment, relating to distilled spirits or distillery
operations, under such limitations and con-
ditions as to quantities, use, and accounta-
bility as the Secretary may by regulations
require for the protection of the revenue [.];
or

“[11] free of tax in the case of distilled
spirits produced under section 5181.”

.

. . . .
“§$ 5601. Criminal penalties
“(a) Offenses
. . . . .

“(14) Distilling after notice of suspension

After the time fixed in the notice given
under section 5221(a) to suspend operations
as a distiller, carries on the business of a
distiller on the premises covered by the
notice of suspension, or has mash, wort, or
beer on such premises, or on any premises
connected therewith, or has in his possession
or under his control any mash, wort, or beer,
with intent to distill the same on such
premises; or

“(15) Unauthorized withdrawal, use, sale,
or distribution of distilled spirits for fuel
use.
“Withdraws, uses, sells or otherwise dis-
poses of distilled spirits produced under
section 5181 for other than fuel use;""

Mr. EXON. Mr. President, the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. Dore) has submitted
an amendment that he intends to add
to the measure before the Senate (H.R.
3919), to extend the excise tax exemp-
tion for gasohol production.

Mr. President, I am pleased to join in
this bipartisan effort to maintain and
extend the current Federal excise tax
exemption for gasohol to the year 2000.
In addition, our amendment provides
for a nonrefundable income tax credit
for uses of alcohol fuels which cannot
benefit from the excise tax exemption,
Particularly to encourage on-farm use
of alcohol fuels. Furthermore, our
amendment would mandate a study and
strict monitoring of alcohol imports to
prevent the development of a depend-
ence on foreign sources for this impor-
tant alternative energy resource.

One of the components of the Na-
tional Energy Act passed in 1978, was
the Energy Tax Act. This measure con-
tained a major provision for alcohol
fuels, the motor fuel excise tax exemp-
tion which exempts gasoline containing
at least 10 percent ethanol or methanol
alcohol from the motor fuel excise tax
of 4 cents per gallon. This provision ex-
pires on October 1, 1984.

Mr. President, an extension of the
gasohol exemption to the year 2000,
would significantly increase the incen-
tive for production of this energy source
by maintaining gasohol’s price competi-
tiveness and providing the continued
demand for the product which investors
peing, long-term financing mechanisms
nm

The current 4-cent-per-gallon excise
See See, es Le,

=

Ils eee oe

ee ee ee ee ee eee

fective marketplace incentive. Since en-
actment of the measure just last year,
gasohol sales have risen rapidly. Accord-
ing to the DOE, in 1 year, the number of
retail outlets marketing gasohol has in-
creased from a few stations to nearly
1,000 in 28 States across the Nation. Un-
der the current incentives, gasohol is sold
at a price equal to or less than premium
unleaded gasoline with an octane rating
between regular and premium unleaded
gasoline. A lower selling price of gasohol,
due to the Federal and State excise tax
exemptions, is a significant factor in
contributing to increasing demand for
gasohol. Since marketers have only the
4-cent excise tax exemption as an in-
centive, it is imperative that we insure
the maintenance of that incentive in
view of the successes we are beginning
to realize. This amendment provides a
clear and consistent message to the in-
dustry and financial institutions regard-
ing future alcohol fuels development.

Mr. President, concerns have rightly
been raised about the dangers of devel-
oping a reliance on foreign sources of
alcohol. If we have learned anything
from our energy problems it is that we
must concentrate on eliminating foreign
dependence on any energy source.

Warnings to the American alcohol
fuels industry will hopefully deter this
course of action. A check of our trade
status indicates that very little ethanol
is now being exported to the United
States, although there have been re-
ports of possible plans to import alcohol
by some American companies. Any pos-
sible problems in this area would depend
on the development of alcohol trade
flows over the next several years.

Our amendment provides for the study
and monitoring of future imports of al-
cohol. Should a serious problem arise,
the Congress and the President can then
take appropriate action consistent with
our trade agreements, particularly un-
der the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, which obligates us to avoid
domestic tax policies which would ad-
versely affect normal competition be-
tween domestic industries and foreign
exports.

Finally, Mr. President, I wish to com-
mend Senators BAYH, McGovern,
Cuurcn, and Stewart who had initially
recognized with me, the problems which
the proposed elimination of the 4-cent
excise tax exemption would bring to bear
on the developing alcohol fuels industry.
We expressed our concerns to the White
House in a letter to Stuart Eizenstat,
and I ask unanimous consent that our
letter be printed in the Recorp.

There being objection, the letter was
ordered to be printed in the Recorp, as

follows:

U.S. SENATE,
Washington, D.C., November 16, 1979.

Mr. Stuart EIZENnstatT,

Assistant to the President for Domestic Af-
fairs and Policy, The White House, Wash-
ington, D.C.

Dear Stu: We are writing to clarify the
Administration’s position on tax provisions
included in HR 3919, the Crude Oil Windfall
Profits Tax Act of 1979, currently being con-
sidered by the Senate. As you probably know,
the Senate Finance Committee included pro-
visions in HR 3919 which repeal the existing
excise tax exemption for gasohol and substi-
tute, in its place, a 40c per gallon refundable
tax credit limited to domestic alcohol. This
credit is to be made available to producers
on a sliding scale, with the incentive varying
in direct proportion to the actual amount of
alcohol blended with gasoline. The benefit
will apply from January 1, 1980 to January 1,
2000.

All of us are strong proponents of aggres-
sive development of a domestic alcohol fuels
industry. Alcohol produced from America’s
abundant renewable resources is one of our
nation’s few possibilities for supplementing
our domestic liquid fuel supplies in the
near-term. We write because of our concern
that the provision in HR 3919 may adversely
affect the progress we have made over the
last year as a result of the market incentive
that has been provided by the excise tax
exemption.

Last June the Department of Energy, in its
Report of the Alcohol Puels Policy Review,

recommended, as its major initiative, per- ©

manently extending the excise tax exemption
for gasohol. In addition, it recommended
limiting federal incentives to domestic al-
cohol. Subsequently, the President also en-
dorsed the extension, by including it in his
energy message to the Congress.

The Finance Committee supports its gaso-
hol tax provisions by reference to several
arguments:

1. By applying the credit to the producer
level, it is possible to exclude extending the
credit to imported gasohol.

2. The producer tax credit would extend
the incentive to severa) gasoline and diesel
users who are currently exempt from the 4c
federal tax.

8. The sliding scale credit would provide
incentives to those who would blend alcohol
in amounts greater than or less than 10 per-
cent.

We agree that each of these arguments has
merit. On the other hand, we are concerned
about the following:

1. The credit would be available only to
those firms actually producing alcohol,
rather than those buying alcohol for blend-
ing in order to make gasohol for retail sales.
By giving the credit to producers, there is
no assurance that the benefit of this tax in-
centive will be directly passed along to those
at the retail level. If it is not, we are con-
cerned that much of the recent stimulus to
gasohol sales, attributable to the incentive
provided by the excise tax exemption, may
come to a halt.

2. Under the Clean Air Act, only gasohol
blended in a 90/10 ratio has been provided
with a waiver under section 211(f), which
prohibits new additives to gasoline without
agency approval.

3. There is considerable confusion, and
some apprehension, among alcohol producers
and distributors about the changes in the
law. Most people we have heard from who
will be affected by this tax prefer to stay with
the existing system, but extend it perma-
nently to provide certainty to the tax benefit
in order to get financing.

4. Gasohol is now standardized as a well
known product of 90 percent gasoline and 10
percent alcohol. Introducing the sliding scale
would result in various products at the
pump, possibly adding confusion to market-
ing efforts and reversing industry interest in
alcohol fuels,

5. The auto makers have warranted their
ears for a 90/10 gasohol blend. It is unclear
how they would respond to the uncertainty
of alcohol/gasoline blends of varying con-
centrations.

We would like very much to cooperate with
the Administration in addressing these con-
cerns. As you know, we are operating under
some serious time constraints. H.R. 3919 is
currently pending betore the menanw. ssuws
cloture be y invoked on this bill, we will not
be able to introduce any new amendments to
H.R. 3919 under the Senate rules. Therefore,
we seek your earliest possible response. It
could be that extension of the exemption,
coupled with extension of a 40¢ refundable
tax credit to tax exempt users might be a
good compromise. However, this would have
to be coupled with some means of assuring
that these tax dollars are not used to subsi-
dize imports at the expense of encouraging
production of domestic alcohol from do-
mestic feedstocks.

Our understanding is that no imported al-
cohol is currently benefitting from the exist-
ing excise tax exemption. We want to assure
that this continues to be the case. Therefore,
if in fact it is a violation of our trade agree-
ments to restrict a retail tax benefit to do-
mestic alcohol alone, it might be appropriate
to couple the excise tax exemption with
strict federal surveillance of alcohol imports
and ask the Treasury Department to make
recommendations to the Congress about how

. this conflict might be resolved.

‘We appreciate your consideration of this
matter and look forward to working with you
on this.

Best regards,

Sincerely,
Bren Barn,
J. James Exon,
Frank CHurcH,
Grorce S. McGovern,
Donatp W. Srewart,
U.S. Senators.

Mr. EXON. I thank Senators Tat-
MADGE, Baucus, NELson, Dore, Percy and
Packwoop, for their efforts to promote
the alcohol fuels industry and their
cooperation in arriving at this properly
balanced proposal which all of us can
view with pride.

Mr. President, I urge adoption of this
amendment in the interests of maintain-
ing a sure and proven mechanism for
insuring the development of alcohol
fuels, and also as another step forward
by this distinguished body toward re-
ducing our dependence on foreign energy
sources.

Mr. DOLE. I thank the majority
leader.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I thank the distinguished Senator from
Kansas for his courtesy, as always.

ORDER CONCERNING NEXT
ADJOURNMENT

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that on the
next adjournment of the Senate, that no
resolutions may come over under the rule
at the close of morning business and
that no actions may occur under rule
XIV.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

ADJOURNMENT

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent—and I do this
for the purpose only of ee the ex-
cess profit tax the unfinished business—
that the Senate stand in adjournment
for 1 second.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

There being no objection, at 4:48:43
p.m. on Thursday, November 29, 1979,
Le Seat Awe earn reeEorO oer
the same day.

APTER ADJOURNMENT
NOVEMBER 29, 1979
The Senate met at 4:48:44 p.m., pur-
suant to adjournment, and was called to
order by Honorable RoBerT MorGan, &
ome tit from the State of North Caro-
‘ina.

THE JOURNAL

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the read-
ing of the Journal of the proceedings be
dispensed with.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

ROUTINE MORNING BUSINESS

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that there be
1 minute for routine morning business.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE

At 12:10 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives delivered by
Mr. Greogory, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House agrees to the
report of the committee of conference
on the disagreeing votes of the two
Houses on the amendment of the Senate
to the bill (H.R. 3354) to authorize ap-
propriations for fiscal year 1980 for con-
servation, exploration, development, and
use of naval petroleum reserves and
naval oil shale reserves, and for other
purposes.

The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills and
joint resolution, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:

ELR. 1489. An act for the relief of In Sun
Pineiro;

H.R. 2313. An act to amend the Federal
Trade Commission Act to extend the au-
thorization of appropriations contained in
such Act, and for other purposes; and

HJ. Res. 448. Joint resolution proclaim-
ing the week of December 3 through Decem-
ber 9, 1979, as “Scouting Recognition
Week.”

ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED

At 4:10 p.m., a message from the House
of Representatives delivered by Mr.
Berry, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed the
following enrolled bills:

S. 182. An act for the relief of Dirk Vier-
kant;

S. 151. An act for the relief of Jerry W.
Manandic and Ceferino W. Manandic;

S. 170. An act for the relief of Janet Abra-
ham, also known as Janet Susan Abraham;

S. 1686. An act to designate the building
known as the Federal Building in Wilming-
ton, Delaware, as the “J. Caleb Boggs

Building”;
S. 1871. An act to amend the Energy

Policy and Conservation Act to extend cer-
tain authorizations relating to the interna-
tional energy program, and for other pur-

poses;
LR. 3354. An act to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 1980 for conservation,
exploration, development, and use of naval
petroleum reserves and naval oil shale re-
serves, and for other purposes; and

H.R. 4483. An act for the relief of Jung-
Sook Nun.

The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore (Mr.
Macnvson).

At 5:16 p.m., a message from the House
of Representatives delivered by Mr.
Gregory, announced that the House has
agreed to the concurrent resolution (S.
Con. Res. 55) directing the Secretary
of the Senate to make corrections in the
enrollment of S. 1871, without amend-
ment,

The message also announced that the
House agrees to the amendments of the
Senate to the amendments of the House
to the bill (S. 497) to extend the authori-
zations of appropriations relating to
emergency medical services systems un-
der title XII and section 789 of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act; to increase the
authorizations of appropriations for sud-
den infant death syndrome counseling
and information projects and revise and
improve authorities under title XI, part
B, of such act; and for other purposes.

The message further announced that
the House agrees to the report of the
committee of conference on the disagree-
ing votes of the two Houses on the
amendment of the Senate to the amend-
ments of the House to the bill (S. 1871)
to extend the existing antitrust exemp-
tion for oil companies that participate in
the agreement on an international en-
ergy program.

The message also announced that the

House agrees to the report of the com-
mittee of conference on the disagreeing
votes of the two Houses on the amend-
ments of the House to the bill (S. 239)
to authorize appropriations for programs
under the Domestic Volunteer Service
Act of 1973, to amend such act to facili-
tate the improvement of programs car-
ried out thereunder, and for other pur-
Poses.
The message further announced that
the House recedes from its disagreement
to the amendments of the Senate num-
bered 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 to the bill (HLR.
2676) to authorize appropriations for en-
vironmental research, development, and
demonstrations for the fiscal year 1980,
and for other purposes, and concurs
therein; and that the House recedes from
its disagreement to the amendment of
the Senate numbered 1 to the bill, and
concurs therein with an amendment in
which it requests the concurrence of the
Senate.

HOUSE BILL AND JOINT RESOLU-
TION REFERRED

The following bill and joint resolu-
tion were read twice by their titles and
referred as indicated:

H.R. 1489. An act for the relief of In
Sun Pineiro; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.

HJ. Res. 448. Joint resolution proclaim-

ing the week of December 3 through De-
cember 9, 1979, as “Scouting Recognition
Week”; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
ul

eNOS eo S&S

Ve ewe

eh er. Sees oe. ©,

LAM hen Soa: tie... SP il

HOUSE BILL PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR

The following bill was read by title
and placed on the calendar:

H.R. 2313. An act to amend the Federal
Trade Commission Act to extend the au-
thorization of appropriations contained in
such Act, and for other purposes.

ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED

The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, November 29, 1979, he
presented to the President of the United
States the following enrolled bills:

S. 182. An act for the relief of Dirk
Vierkant;

S. 151. An act for the relief of Jerry W.
Manandic and Ceferino W. Manandic;

8. 170. An act for the relief of Janet
Abraham, also known as Janet Susan Abra-
ham;

8S. 1157. An act to authorize appropria-
tions for the purpose of carrying out the
activities of thé Department of Justice for
fiscal year 1980, and for other purposes;

S. 1686. An act to designate the building
known as the Federal Building in Wilming-
ton, Delaware, as the “J. Caleb Boggs Build-
ing”; and

S. 1871. An act to amend the Energy
Policy and Conservation Act to extend cer-
tain authorities relating to the international
energy program, and for other purposes.

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER COMMUNI-
CATIONS

The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and
documents, which were referred as in-
dicated:

EC-2548. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator of the Veterans Administration,
transmitting, pursuant to law, notice of an
obligation in excess of the approved appor-
tionment of an appropriation for the Vet-
erans Administration; to the Committee on
Appropriations.

EC-2549. A communication from the
Comptroller General of the United States,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report en-
titled “Amtrak's Inventory And Property
Controls Need Strengthening”; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation.

EC—2550. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on
State Medicaid program compliance with
Section 10903(g) of the Social Security Act;
to the Committee on Finance.

EC-2551. A communication from the
Comptroller General of the United States,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report en-
titled “Improved Grievance-Arbitration Sys-
tem: A Key To Better Labor Relations In
The Postal Service"; to the Committee on
Governmental Affairs.

EC-2552. A communication from the Di-
rector of the United States Office of Personnel
Management, transmitting, pursuant to law.
®& report on the exclusions from the Senior
Executive Service of certain employees of
the National Security Council under Section
3132(f) of title 5, United States Code; to
the Committee on Governmental Affairs.

EC-2553. A communication from the
Comptroller General of the United States,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report en-
titled “Federal R&D Laboratories—Directors’
Perspectives On Management”; to the Com-
mittee on Governmental Affairs.

EC-2554. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report or
an assessment of the National Area Health
Education Center Program; to the Commit-
tee on Labor and Human Resources,

EC-2555. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare
transmitting, pursuant to law, the annua!
report on costs and financing of health care
distribution of health care resources, utiliza.
tion of health resources, and the health o!
the Nation’s people for 1979; to the Com
mittee on Labor and Human Resources.

EC-2556. A communication from the
Chairman of the National Advisory Counci!
on Extension and Continuing Education
transmitting, pursuant to law, a special re-
port on the continuing emergence of adults
or nontraditional learners, as major con-
sumers of postsecondary resources in the
United States; to the Committee on Labo!
and Human Resources.

PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS

The following petitions and memorials
were laid before the Senate and were re-
ferred or ordered to lie on the table as
indicated:

POM-494. A resolution adopted by the
Board of Freeholders, County of Essex, New
Jersey, commending Senator Harrison A
Williams, Jr.; which was ordered to lie on
the table.

POM-495. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to the Nationa!
Energy Assistance Program; to the Com-
mittee on Labor and Human Resources.

POM-496. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to foreign trade
expansion; to the Committee on Finance.

POM-497. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to discrimina-
tory freight rates; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation,

POM-498. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to equitable al-
location formulas and eligibility criteria in
Federal Community and Economic Develop-
ment Programs; to the Committee on Gov-
ernmental Affairs.

POM-499. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to deregulation
of ofl prices; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.

POM-500. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to clean air
plans; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.

POM-501. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to plant clos-
ings; to the Committee on Labor and, Hu-
man Resources.

POM-502. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to development
of effective coastal protection systems
against natural disasters; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.

POM-503. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to Federal aid
reform; to the Committee on Governmental
Affairs.

POM-504. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to fluoride limits
in interim primary drinking water stand-
ards; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.

POM-505. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
uniformity in truck regulation; to the i=
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation.

POM-506. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to Federal as-
sistance to curtail drug smuggling; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.

POM-507. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to national coal
policy; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.

POM-508. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to the Depart-
ment of Energy mission; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.

POM-509. A resolution adopted by the
Southern Governors’ Association, in New
Orleans, Louisiana, relating to repeal of the
carryover basis rule; to the Committee on
Finance.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEES

The following reports of committees
were submitted:

By Mr. LONG, from the Committee on
Finance, without amendment:

S. Res. 293. An original resolution in-
creasing the limitation on expenditures by
the Committee on Finance for the procure-
ment of consultants. Referred to the Com-
mittee on Rules and Administration.

Special Report entitled “Finance Commit-
tee Allocation of Budget Totals Under the

ZoeopRnv Oo ett oe@km gy ft

tT)

Zo

oonaysn

CONSOLIDATED REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FOREIGN CURRENC
ON FORE!

Note: Delegation expenses include direct payments and reimburse
and Defense Department under authority of sec. 502(b) of the Mutu
amended by sec. 22 of Public Law 95-384, and Senate Resolution 17

The following Senators were members of Codel Biden and have filed

«
Oct, 31, 1979.
Fiscal Year 1980” (Rept. No. 96-432). Li
By Mr. LONG, from the Committee on

Finance, with an amendment: to
LR. 5224. An act to continue through May
31, 1981, the existing prohibition on the is-

suance of fringe benefit regulations, and for ™

Seer Porposes (Rept. No. 96-433). w

. NELSON, from the Committee on tt

paar ee Human Resources, with an ir

tc

ce

amendment:

S. 1725. A bill to amend the Economic
Opportunity Act of 1964 to establish a com-
prehensive energy conservation services pro-
gram designed to enable low-income and

near-poor individuals and families to par-
ticipate in energy assistance programs (Rept.
No. 96-434).

app

The following executive reports of ol
committees were submitted:

By Mr. LONG, from the Committee on
Finance:

Robert D. Hormats, of Maryland, to be a
Deputy Special Representative for Trade
Negotiations, with the rank of Ambassador.

(The above nomination from the Com-
mittee on Finance was reported with the
recommendation that it be confirmed,
subject tothe nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and testify
before any duly constituted committee
of the Senate.)

genzeoarans

\CIES AND APPROPRIATED FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEM
EIGN RELATIONS, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 23 AND SEPT. 1, |

Per diem ‘Transportation
U.S, dollar U.S, dollar
equivalent A equivalent
Foreign or U.S. Foreign or U.S.
currency currency

8 Seog Ses:

00
00
73
26
54
00
06
81
83
150. 00
ri)
00
76
00
62

By
=

BERS

sements to State Department of foreign currencies with the comr
tual Security Act of 1954, as Committee on Governmental Affairs
179, agreed to May 25, 1977. _ Levin, Committee on Armed Service:

d their reports of expenditure
Labor and Human Resources:
Shirley Mount Hufstedler, of California,
to be Secretary of Education.

(The above nomination from the Com-
mittee on Labor and Human Resources
was reported with the recommendation
that it be confirmed, subject to the nom-
inee’s commitment to respond to requests
to appear and testify before any duly
constituted committee of the Senate.)

ORDER FOR STAR PRINTS OF
AMENDMENTS

Mr. EAGLETON. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that my amend-
ments Nos. 630 and 670 to H.R. 3919, the
windfall profit tax bill, be star printed.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

FOREIGN CURRENCY REPORTS

In accordance with the appropriate
provisions of law, the Secretary of the
Senate herewith submits the following
report(s) of standing committees of the
Senate, certain joint committees of the
Congress, delegations and groups, and
select and special committees of the
Senate, relating to expenses incurred in
the performance of authorized foreign
travel:

EMBERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, COMMITTEE
1, 1979

8

2 8

BERS BE5
B uses 8888 83

175, 54

156. 45,

ommittees which authorized their travel: Senator David Erie
jirs; Senator David Boren, Committee on Finance, Senator Car
jices; Senator Bill Bradley, Committee on Finance.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN, Chairman

FRANK CHURCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations.
SVUNRSULIDATED REPURIT UF EAPENDITURE UF FOREIGN UURM

Nov, 27, 1979.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES AND APP

Oct, 25, 1979.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURE OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES AND A
Mi
Name of
Name and country currency
William F. Hildenbrand:
Belgium.

Oct. 25, 1979,

INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS

The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first and
second time by unanimous consent, and
referred as indicated:

By Mr. EAGLETON:

S. 2058. A bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to provide that owners of mo-
tor vehicles leased by the United States
Postal Service shall be exempt from the
payment of State taxes and fees on those
vehicles; to the Committee on Governmen-
tal Affairs.

By Mr. DOMENICI:

S. 2059. A bill entitled the “Congressional
Budget Limitation Act of 1980”; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget and the Committee on
Governmental Affairs, pursuant to order of
August 4, 1977.

By Mr. BAUCUS:

S. 2060. A bill to amend the Packers and
Stockyards Act; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.

By Mr. THURMOND:

S. 2061. A bill to reform the method of
providing pay increases for all Federal em-
Ployees; to the Committee on the Budget
and the Committee on Governmental Affairs,
Jointly, pursuant to order of August 4, 1977.
RE NUIES AND APT RUT RIN FEM PUNO PUN PURLEY FRAVES OF Ne
COMMITTEE, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 23 AND SEPT. 30,

Per diem Transportation
U.S, dollar U.S, doll
equivalent juivale
Foreign or U.S. Foreign or U.

>PROPRIATED FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AND EMI
AFFAIRS, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG, 23 AND SEPT. 1, 1979

Per diem Transportation
U.S. dollar U.S. doll
equivalent juivaler
Foreign or U.S. Foreign or U.!
currency ‘currency currency curren

APPROPRIATED FUNDS FOR FOREIGN TRAVEL BY MEMBERS AN!
MINORITY LEADER, EXPENDED BETWEEN AUG. 23 TO SEPT. 1, 1

Per diem Transportation
U.S. dollar U.S, dolls
equivalent equivaler
Foreign or U.S, Foreign or U.S

By Mr. BAUCUS:

S. 2062. A bill to amend the Internal Reve-
nue Code of 1954 to provide that the execu-
tor may elect to disregard, in the valuation
for estate tax purposes of certain items
created by the decedent during his life, any
amount which would not have been capital
gain if such item had been sold by the
decedent at its fair market value; to the
Committee on Finance.

STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTION

By Mr. DOMENICI:

S. 2059. A bill entitled the “Congres-
sional Budget Limitation Act of 1980;”
, to the Committee on the Budget and
; the Committee on Governmental Affairs,

pursuant to order of August 4, 1977.

@ Mr. DOMENICI. Mr. President, today
| Iam again introducing legislation which
" would amend the Congressional Budget
and Impoundment Control Act of 1974
to provide a limitation on total budget
outlays approved by Congress in any one
year.

Under the provisions of my legislation,
which is titled, “The Congressional
SLD NY SUT SV ESED VT EE Ua, SENN IL, ARMCW CONV IUEs
0, 1979

Miscellaneous Total
dollar U.S. dollar U.S, dolla
alent juivalent equivalen'
U.S. Foreign or U.S. Foreign or
rency currency currency currency

JOHN C. STENNIS,
Chairman, Committee on Armed Services,

EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENTAL
9

Miscellaneous Total
follar ~ dollar US. _
alent valent ivaient
US. Foreign 3. or U.S, Foreign ie U.S

DAVID PRYOR,

AND EMPLOYEES OF THE U.S. SENATE, TRAVEL AUTHORIZED BY
1, 1979

WILLIAM F. HILDENBRAND,

Budget Limitation Act of 1980,” total
budget outlays in any concurrent reso-
lution passed in accordance with the
Congressional Budget Act could not in
any calendar year exceed 20 percent of
the Nation’s gross national product.

My reasons for introducing this legis-
lation are clear cut. Continuing and
overpowering Federal budget deficits are
bringing the Nation’s economy to its
knees. The evidence has accumulated for
years.

Other Senators have been interested
in similar legislation, notably Senator
- Rot and Senator Macnuson, who re-
” cently introduced S. 2039. In the House,
d Congressman Jim Jones has been ac-
3, tively pursuing such a legislative limi-

tation.
y Voters of all persuasions have begun
h to view their Government as a bloated
inefficient beast, which is causing as
4 many problems as it is solving. At the
t same time, taxpayers across the entire
e political spectrum are increasing their

specific demands on Government for fi-
1, nancial intervention in fresh new areas
1 of everyday life.

Se ax aes
Cnt cee er SE Eat ee lh ee ede

these contributing forces has been to
adopt the rhetoric of a political conserv-
ative talking of “hard choices” and “sun-
set clauses” on Government programs on
the one hand, while adding to the Fed-
eral deficit with the other hand to ac-
commodate demands of special interest
groups.

The elected representative needs help.
He needs help for himself, and he needs
help with the impossible bind in which
the system has placed his constituents.

The most sensible way out of this di-
lemma is to put a lid on the resources
available to the political process. And to
meet this challenge, the American Con-
gress needs to be put on a budget that is
eal; a budget that limits the amount of
resources available for it to spend.

Such a limit would allow the elected
representative to make good his commit-
nent to reduce Federal spending, while
1aving the advantage of pitting special
nterest groups against each other in a
scramble for scarce taxpayers’ dollars.

A law that would limit the Federal
oudget to 20 percent of gross national
product would solve this dilemma, and
for the first time allow political action to
match political rhetoric.e

By Mr. BAUCUS:

S. 2060. A bill to amend the Packers
and Stockyards Act; to the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.

PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS ADMINISTRATION

® Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, I am
introducing legislation to establish the
Packers and Stockyards Administration
aS an agency within the Department of
Agriculture.

The Packers and Stockyards Adminis-
tration is responsible for maintaining
competition in the marketing of live-
stock, poultry and meat production by
prohibiting deceptive and monopolistic
marketing practices. I believe that the
effectiveness of the Packers and Stock-
yards Administration has been reduced
by a 1977 reorganization shift which
placed it under the Agricultural Market-
ing Service. Because the Packers and
Stockyards Administration mainly per-
forms a regulatory role, it does not fit in
with the Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice’s functions of promotion, research,
and information.

Mr. President, as a member of the
Subcommittee on Antitrust, Monopoly
and Business Rights of the Judiciary
Committee, I am concerned that in its
present status the Packers and Stock-
yards Administration may not be able
to effectively deal with new challenges
facing the livestock industry.

The packing segment of the livestock
industry is changing rapidly. Some pack-
ing firms are growing at phenomenal
rates, and vertical integration also
threatens to restrain competition in the
industry.

Large packers are becoming sophisti-
cated in the employment and use of law
firms and public relations organizations
to capitalize on their new levels of eco-
nomic and political power. In order to
effectively deal with these new realities,
the Packers and Stockyards Administra-
ee eT Oe ee a Sh ee ee ee ee ee ee a
arate agency directly supervised by the
Secretary of Agriculture.

I believe that the legislation I am in-
troducing today is necessary to carry out
the statutory mandate of the Packers
and Stockyards Administration to pro-
tect livestock consumers and producers
from deceptive and monopolistic mar-
keting practices.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed
at this point in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the bill was
ordered to be printed in the Recorp, as
follows:

S. 2060

Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That section
107(b) of the Packers and Stockyards Act,
1921 (7 U.S.C. 228(b)), is amended to read
as follows:

“(b) The Secretary shall establish and
maintain as an agency within the Depart-
ment of Agriculture the Packers and Stock-
yards Administration which shall be headed
by an Administrator who shall be appointed
and supervised by the Secretary. The Secre-
tary shall enforce and administer this Act
through the Packers and Stockyards Admin-
stration.”.@

By Mr. THURMOND:

S. 2061. A bill to reform the method of
providing pay increases for all Federal
employees; to the Committee on the
Budget and the Committee on Govern-
mental Affairs, jointly, pursuant to order
of August 4, 1977.

FEDERAL EMPLOYEE PAY REFORM ACT OF 1979

Mr. THURMOND. Mr. President, I am
today introducing legislation which I
believe addresses the controversial, re-
current issue of salary increases for Fed-
eral Government employees, including
Members of Congress, in a reasonable,
responsible fashion.

This bill is simple and straightfor-
ward. It incorporates three principles
which I believe should provide the basic
framework for a sound, responsible ap-
proach to the pay raise question:

First, an act of Congress should be re-
quired to put into effect each pay raise
that may be proposed for Federal em-
ployees, including, especially, Members
of Congress.

Second, Congress should have to ac-
count to the voters for any salary in-
crease they may have voted for them-
selves, before the increase takes effect;
thus, congressional salary increases
should be postponed until the beginning
of the next Congress, allowing the inter-
vention of a general election.

Third, a balanced Federal budget
should be a prerequisite to any pay in-
srease for Members of Congress and the
top Federal executives.

Mr. President, this bill is designed to
make these three basic principles the
sornerstone of a responsible approach to
the annually recurring issue of cost-of-
iving increases for Federal Government
employees. Just a few weeks ago, the
Senate and the House battled back and
forth over the issue of whether Congress
should allow itself a cost-of-living pay
increase. The Senate was opposed to any
increase. The House insisted on at least
bickering, both Houses, upper level offi-
cials in the executive branch, and Fed-
eral judges automatically got a 12.9-per-
cent raise, although this amount was
eventually reduced, in the case of Mem-
bers of Congress and appointed officials
in the executive pay schedule, to a 5.5-
percent increase.

However, because of the combination
of automatic salary adjustments and the
constitutional prohibition against reduc-
tion of a Federal judge’s salary during
his term of office, members of the Federal
judiciary received the full 12.9-percent
raise. This unintended result would not
have occurred had the procedures pro-
vided for under my bill been in effect at
the time. Moreover, had my bill been the
law, Congress and the upper echelon of-
ficials would not have been entitled to
any salary increase because the Federal
budget is far from being balanced.
AFFIRMATIVE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF COM-

PARABILITY PAY INCREASES

Mr. President, under current law, as
established by the Federal Pay Com-
parability Act of 1970, the burden is on
Congress to act if it desires to halt or
modify a scheduled pay increase recom-
mended by the President.

Furthermore, because cost-of-living
adjustments for Members of Congress,
the Federal judiciary, and Federal em-
ployees under the executive pay schedule
are linked to annual adjustments for
other Federal workers, these groups of
persons also receive periodic pay boosts
without explicit approval by Congress.

My bill requires that Congress specif-
ically authorize any cost-of-living ad-
justment by passing a joint resolution.
Otherwise, my proposal basically leaves
intact the structure and operation of the
pay comparability system, with its an-
nual study of pay comparability, recom-
mendation to the President for appro-
priate adjustments, authority for the
President to modify the recommended
amount of the cost-of-living adjust-
ment if a national emergency or eco-
nomic conditions affecting the general
welfare warrant such modification, and
transmittal to Congress of the Presi-
dent’s recommended adjustments in
rates of pay.

Frankly, Mr. President, I have serious
questions about the necessity of the
elaborate Federal pay comparability
system machinery. I would personally
prefer that periodic studies of needed
pay adjustments be conducted by the
appropriate congressional committees, in
conjunction with the President’s Office of
Management and Budget and the Office
of Personnel Management.

However, recognizing that outright
repeal of the entire Federal Pay Com-
parability Act would be considered too
drastic by some, I am proposing the more
limited objective of simply requiring ex-
plicit congressional action as a pre-
requisite to pay increases for all Fed-
eral employees, including Members of
Congress. I firmly believe Congress has
a responsibility to the taxpayers of this
Nation to face squarely the issue of pay
raises for itself and other Federal em-
ployees, rather than continuing the
yearly adjustments.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONGRESSIONAL PAY
INCREASES

Mr. President, the second part of my
bill specifies that the effective date of
any congressional salary increase will be
no earlier than the first day of the next
Congress.

The intent of this provision is to allow
the intervention of a general election be-
tween the time of any vote to increase
congressional salaries and the effective
date of the scheduled increase. Thus, all
of the House Members and one-third of
the Senators would have to account to
the yoters before they could have their
own salaries increased. The need for this
provision is all the more important since
the decision by Congress in 1975 to tie
salary adjustments for Members of Con-
gress to the annual cost-of-living in-
creases for general schedule Federal
employees.

"Mr, President, I would like to point out
that this part of my bill incorporates a
proposal which Senator Stone of Flori-
da has introduced as a separate bill, S.
725. I am a cosponsor of this bill with
the junior Senator from Florida and also
of his accompanying proposal for a con-
stitutional amendment to accomplish the
same objective. By including this con-
cept in my comprehensive bill, I am re-
emphasizing the importance of it as a
basic principle of what I view as a more
responsible means of legislating con-
gressional salary increases.

BALANCED BUDGET REQUIREMENT

Mr. President, the third and final pro-
vision in this bill simply writes into law
the principle that the salaries of Mem-
bers of Congress and the upper salary
level employees in the executive branch
(those on the Executive level pay sched-
ule) will not be increased unless and
until the Federal budget is balanced.

Some may see this as a futile, imprac-
tical gesture, but I am one who believes
it is absolutely imperative that the Fed-
eral Government adopt and abide by a
sound fiscal policy of spending no more
than it takes in from tax revenues. I fur-
ther believe that it is utterly ridiculous
for those most responsible for the budget
deficits which have occurred in 18 of the
last 19 years—Congress and the Execu-
tives who manage and recommend Gov-
ernment spending—to continue receiving
bay increases that further add to the
deficit.

Perhaps even more important than the
amount of money involved in these pay
increases is the poor example that Gov-
ernment leaders set for the rest of thé
Nation when they further increase their
already high salaries. How can we seri-
ously expect those in the private sector
to exercise wage, salary, and price re-
straint in order to slow the pace of in-
flation if their elected and appointed
leaders in the highest echelons of Gov-
ernment are unwilling to set an example
of fiscal responsibility in regard to their
own compensation? Mr. President, we
can and should do better by the tax-
Payers.

Thus, I believe it is necessary to estab-
lish a firm policy of no increases in sal-
ome Pera nt: pe es nin re 7 hae) eee PrN ye) Gee ea pe

legislative and executive branches of the
Federal Government who are in a posi-
tion to control Government spending
until that level of spending is sufficiently
curtailed to bring it in line with tax
revenues.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of this bill be printed
in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the bill was
ordered to be printed in the Recorp, as
follows:

S. 2061
Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled,

SHORT TITLE

SecTion 1. This Act may be cited as the
“Federal Employee Pay Reform Act of 1979”.

AFFIRMATIVE CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL OF
COMPARABILITY PAY INCREASES

Sec. 2. (a) Section 5305 of title 5, United
States Code, is amended—

(1) in subsection (a)—

(A) by inserting “and” at the end of
paragraph (1),

(B) by striking out paragraphs (2) and
(3) and inserting the following:

“(2) after considering the report of his
agent and the findings and recommenda-
tions of the Advisory Committee on Federal
Pay reported to him under section 5306(b)
(3) of this title, transmit to Congress recom-
mended adjustments in the rates of pay of
each pay system in accordance with the
principles under section 5301(a) of this
title.”; and

(C) by striking out the last sentence;

(2) by striking out subsections (c)
through (m) and inserting:

“(c) If, because of national emergency or
economic conditions affecting the general
welfare, the President should, in any year,
consider it inappropriate to recommend pay
adjustments consistent with the principles
under section 5301(a) of this title, the Presi-
dent shall include in the report transmitted
under subsection (b)(2) of this section rec-
ommendations for adjustments he considers
appropriate, together with the reasons
therefor.

“(d)(1) The rates of pay of each statutory
pay system shall be adjusted under this sec-
tion only if a joint resolution is enacted pro-
viding for such adjustment.

“(2) Any joint resolution enacted under
paragraph (1) of this subsection shall
specify—

“(A) the amount of the adjustment in the
rates of pay of each statutory pay system,

“(B) the overall percentage of the adjust-
ment in the rates of pay under the General
Schedule and of the adjustments in the rates
of pay under the other statutory pay systems,
and

“(C) the effective date of the adjustment.

“(e) The rates of pay which become ef-
fective under this section are the rates of pay
applicable to each position concerned, and
each class of positions concerned, under a
statutory pay system.”; and

(3) by redesignating subsections (n)
through (r) as subsections (f) through (J).

(b) The amendments made by subsection
(a) shall apply to any adjustments under
section 5305 on or after the date of the
enactment of this Act.

EFFECTIVE DATE OF CONGRESSIONAL
PAY INCREASES

Sec. 3. (a) Section 601(a) of the Legisla-
tive Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 US.C.
31) is amended by adding at the end thereof
the following new paragraph:

“(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of
this subsection, section 225 of the Federal

xs

ae ee ee

of law, an individual referred to in para-
graph (1) may not have his rate of pay
increased—

“(A) by or under any law passed during
a Congress;

“(B) under recommendations taking ef-
fect under section 225 of the Federal Salary
Act of 1967 which were transmitted by the
President during a Congress; or
fe “(C) under paragraph (2) of this subsec-

ion;
unless such increase is to take effect not
earlier than the first day of the next Con-

88."

(b) The amendment made by subsection
(a) shall apply with respect to laws passed
by either House of Congress after the date
of the enactment of this Act, and recom-
mendations regarding pay transmitted by
the President after such date.

BALANCED BUDGET REQUIREMENT

Sec. 4. The annual rate of pay for any
office or position described in subparagraphs
(A), (B), (), and (BE) of section 225(f)
of the Federal Salary Act of 1967 (2 U.S.C.
356) shall not be increased under any provi-
sion of law to a rate in excess of the rate
of pay in effect on the date of the enactment
of this Act, unless Congress has approved,
as provided in section 310 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 (31 U.S.C. 1331), 8
second concurrent resolution on the budget
in which the total budget outlays do not
exceed Federal revenues for the fiscal year
in which such increase is to take effect.

By Mr. BAUCUS:

S. 2062. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1954 to provide that the
executor may elect to disregard, in the
valuation for estate tax purposes of cer-
tain items created by the decedent dur-
ing his life, any amount which would not
have been capital gain if such item had
been sold by the decedent at its fair mar-
ket value; to the Committee on Finance.

VALUATION OF CERTAIN ITEMS CREATED BY A

DECEDENT

@ Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, today I
am introducing legislation to correct a
major tax inequity now encountered by
heirs to artists’ estates. Current Federal
estate tax laws are unfair not only to
America’s artists and their families, but
also to all Americans who are being de-
prived of an extraordinary source of our
national cultural heritage as a result of
these laws. This artist's estate tax bill
will help insure the preservation of our
country’s works of art. It will encourage
productivity by creative persons who are
presently reluctant to create, and who
are even destroying their work in order
that, upon their death, their families not
be burdened with an enormous and fi-
nancially devastating estate tax bill be-
cause of their unsold art. My bill will ease
the burden of inheritance taxes for heirs
of artists by postponing the major taxa-
tion of art work they inherit until the
works are actually sold.

A professor at one of my State’s fine
universities asked me this question:

Can a civilized nation have tax laws that
result in the destruction of art?

I believe the answer must be a re-
sounding “No.” Unfortunately, that is
not the answer given by our country’s tax
laws today.

Under current tax law, the heirs of ar-
tists are required to pay estate taxes on
the fair market value of inherited works
oi art. ihe important point to remember
is that, for most artists, the bulk of their
estate is comprised of their own unsold
art, rather than other assets—like cars,
jewelry, furniture, stocks and bonds—
which have a readily ascertainable value
and are easily marketable.

And, unlike such items, like an expen-
sive, rapidly appreciating piece of jew-
elry, which are held for investment pur-
poses, art works often remain in the cre-
ator’s estate for the simple reason that
the artist was unable to sell them, or
even give them away to a museum or
charity. Ironically, when the artist is
alive and does donate his or her work,
our tax laws only permit a charitable
deduction equal to the artist’s cost of
materials in the work. Yet, when the ar-
tist dies, the very artwork which could
not be sold or even given away are, at
that instant of death, mystically trans-
formed into valuable assets which are
subject to estate taxes computed on their
full market value—a value which is spec-
ulative at best.

The devastating impact that these tax
laws have on an artist's family cannot be
overstated. Families of artists, who are
unable to sell their creative works, have
had to live on limited, moderate incomes,
and find that, at the moment of the ar-
tist’s death, they suddenly become
“wealthy” because of that same unsold
art. But that wealth is illusory for all
but tax purposes.

Actually, families faced with an enor-
mous estate tax bill due on unsold works
often do not have sufficient money on
hand to pay the tax bill. So, the artwork
must be sold in order to pay the estate
tax due on them. It is at that time, the
artist’s family is faced not only with a
limited market, but also with a “buyer's”
market. In these desperation sales, col-
lectors and other buyers can get the art
for a bargain. Hence, the very artwork,
which when unsold were valued at fair
market value for tax purposes, often
have to be sold at prices far below mar-
ket value in order to pay the estate tax.

Many times, even the sale of the art-
work will not bring in enough money to
pay off the tax bill. Other assets must
then be sold to raise the needed addi-
tional capital—and sometimes this
means selling the family home. This is
exactly what happened to the widow of
“Pogo” creator, Walt Kelly. In a news-
paper article 2 years ago, Selby Kelly
said that after her husband’s death, the
first legal advice given her was to de-
clare bankruptcy, Mrs. Kelly said:

I didn’t take that advice, but, I was forced
to sell our home, a beautiful brownstone—
and liye very simply today.

Mrs. Kelly went on to say that she
was able to survive financially during
this period because, a cartoonist herself,
she was able to continue many “Pogo”
projects and thus produce enough income
to pay the tax bills.

What happened to Mrs. Kelly is not
an isolated occurrence. Regrettably, re-
ports of similar situations—and ones
where the families are not even as fortu-
nate as Mrs. Kelly was in being able to
generate some income by continuing her
husband’s projects—are becoming com-

at te a ht boro we

eo

PR Se ee ee ee ey ee, CE

SR eee en ees ST See ee
monplace. No wonder then, that artists,
painfully aware that their creative works
may, at their death, place their families
in severe financial jeopardy, are produc-
ing less and are actually destroying the
very art they worked so hard to create.
A few years ago, Arizona artist, Ted De
Grazia burned his paintings worth $1.5
million because his wife simply could
not afford to inherit them. Other artists
voice like intentions.

What a waste of talent. What an un-
fair burden upon artists and their fami-
lies. What a blow to our Nation’s cultural
heritage. What a loss to all Americans.

The bill I introduce today would end
this inequity in a very simple way. The
bill would give the executor of an artist’s
estate an optional method of estate tax
evaluation of unsold created works. Thus
the executor could elect, for estate tax
purposes only, either first to value the
works at their fair market value, as un-
der present law, or second to value the
artwork at the cost of the materials used
to create them.

This cost-of-materials evaluation may
be new in the area of estate taxes, but
it is certainly not alien to our Federal
tax laws. Such evaluation is identical to
the method which currently must be used
to compute the amount which an artist
is permitted to deduct, for income tax
purposes, for donating created works to
charitable organizations during his or
her lifetime.

Under this bill, then, the choice of
which estate tax evaluation option to use
is left exclusively within the discretion
of each executor of an artist’s estate.
An executor would then make the deci-
sion on which option would be more ad-
vantageous for the heirs based on com-
paring the cost in estate taxes with that
in income taxes for the particular estate.
Naturally, if the heirs sell the artwork,
they would still have to pay ordinary
income taxes on the sales price less the
basis (value) they chose at the time of
the inheritance.

Thus, the decision would depend upon
whether it would be better financially
for the estate to use fair market valua-
tion for estate tax purposes, which would
result in lower income taxes if the art
is sold in the future, or use the cost-of-
materials valuation, which would de-
crease the immediate estate taxes but re-
sult in higher income taxes when the
artwork is sold. Factors which would be
considered during the estate tax/income
tax cost comparison include: the size of
the estate—and thus whether it would
incur Federal estate tax—the financial
stability and ready cash availability of
the estate and the heirs, and the artist’s
intent and desires of the heirs to keep
the artwork in the family or sell it.

Essentially, this bill relieves artists of
the agonizing pressure to destroy the
fruits of their own labor in order to pro-
tect their families, and ends the tragedy
suffered by artists’ families in having to
sell the artwork to pay the estate taxes.
It would allow each created work to
achieve its own true value. It would per-
mit a more responsible distribution of
art. And, it would eliminate the artificial
and oftentimes inflated valuation of art
at “fair market” levels at a time—the

poconeeo @Octetnp

wpoOngnHncotonc

woreda

eee on

cane

ey ee ee
artist’s death—when, if that art is
sold—particularly when sold in blocks—
their actual sales prices are really less
than the statutory figure upon which the
estate tax is based.

And the bill accomplishes all this by in
effect postponing the brunt of Federal
taxation until the artwork is actually
sold. The ultimate price paid for artwork
on the date of sale provides a true, cer-
tain value upon which Federal taxes
could then be fairly and appropriately
applied.

My bill is the Senate companion meas-
ure to H.R. 1720, the artist’s estate tax
bill, which was introduced in the House
on February 1, 1979, by Congressman
Frep RicHMonp. Mr. RicHMonp has long
been a leader in Congress in attempting
to correct the many tax inequities faced
by artists and the heirs to their estates.
I commend him for his diligent and re-
sponsible work in this area, and am hon-
ored to join in the fight for passage of
artists’ estate tax relief.

Artists and artists’ organizations have
written Mr. Richmonp in support of this
legislation. Here are a few comments
from those so burdened by present law
on the need for the artist’s estate tax
bill:

‘This bill is essential to family security and
peace of mind of every creative artist in the
country. Evaluating artists’ work at cost
solves the agonizing problems of heirs hay-
ing to quickly sell the art to pay the estate
tax.

RvuBIN GoREWITz,
President, Artists Rights Today.

The irony of an artist not to be able to
afford being alive or dead can be creatively
altered by the passing of your bill. Every-
one survives in this change in the law, even
the deceased is comforted. Thank you.

RoseErT RAUSCHENBERG,
American Artist.

The present estate tax situation is a glaring
inequity. It seems to me an appalling contra-
diction that an artist giving a gift of his or
her own work to a public institution may de-
duct only the cost of producing that work
(usually about $75.00). At the artist’s death,
that same work is then assessed at fair mar-
ket value and this figure often reaches into
the hundreds of thousands of dollars. The
real losers in this situation are our public
institutions, libraries and museums, and
thus the American people. If we are to be-
lieve that the arts are a national resource,
let us encourage them with this measure.

Jamie WYETH.
American Artist.

I want to thank you for writing this bill to
enable the artist at his death to leave his
work evaluated at cost to his heirs. This
would help stop the confusion between aes-
thetic value and money, so that after death
each painting could achieve its own value
and be taxed as it is sold. Thomas Hart Ben-
ton whose murals adorn the Truman Lil
burned many of his works so that his family
wouldn't inherit an immediate, unusual tax
burden. The passing of this bill will help
normalize a stricken cultural situation.

JAMES ROSENQUIST,
American Artist.

As an artist deeply concerned about the
welfare of my family, I heartily endorse this
pill. Being an artist is a risky and uncertain
occupation. I am disturbed that I can con-
tribute to a museum and only deduct cost of
materials. If I give the work as a gift, I must
te, hie) ap nan eA p~ i eg  ae A erage oe ert
when I sell my works. When I die, my heirs
under present law would be forced to pay
large taxes on unsold works. Your bill re-
dresses an unfair situation and I wish you
great success in your endeavors.
GeorRGE SEGAL,
American Artist.

In conclusion, Mr. President, I urge
my colleagues to join with me in elimi-
nating a major tax inequity which now
burdens one of America’s greatest na-
tural treasures.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the bill be printed in
the REcorp.

There being no objection, the bill was
ordered to be printed in the Recorp, as
follows:

S. 2062

Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, That (a)
part III of subchapter A of chapter 11 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (relating to
gross estate) is amended by inserting after
section 2032A the following new section:
Sec. 2032B. VALUATION OF CERTAIN ITEMS

CREATED BY THE DECEDENT.

“(a) GeneraL Rute.—If—

“(1) the decedent was (at the time of his
death) a citizen or resident of the United
States, and

“(2) the executor elects the application of
this section,
then, for purposes of this chapter, the value
of qualified creative property shall be de-
termined under subsection (b).

“(b) VALUE OF QUALIFIED CREATIVE PROP-
ERTY.—For purposes of subsection (a), the
value of qualified creative property of the
decedent shall not include any amount
which would not have been capital gain if
such property had been sold by the decedent
at its fair market value (determined at the
time of the valuation of the gross estate of
the decedent) .

“(c) QUALIFIED CREATIVE PROPERTY DeE-
FINED.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘qualified creative property’ means any
copyright, any literary, musical, or artistic
composition, any letter or memorandum, or
any similar property—

“(1) which was held by the decedent at
the time of his death, and

“(2) which was created by the personal
efforts of the decedent.

“(d) Execrion.—The election under this
section shall be made not later than the time
prescribed by section 6075(a) for filing the
return of tax imposed by section 2001 (in-
cluding extensions thereof), and shall be
made in such manner as the Secretary shall
by regulations prescribe.”’.

(b) The table of sections for such part IIIT
is amended by inserting after the item re-
lating to section 2082A the following new
item:

“Sec. 2032B. Valuation of certain items
created by the decedent.”.

(c) Subsection (f) of section 1023 of such
Code (relating to special rules and defini-
tions) is amended by adding at the end
thereof the following new paragraph:

“(6) PERSONAL OR HOUSEHOLD EFFECT.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘personal or
household effect’ shall not include any quali-
fied creative property (as defined in section
2032B(c) to which an election under sec-
tion 2032B applies.”.

Sec. 2. The amendments made by the first
section of this Act shall apply to estates of
decedents dying on or after January 1, 1979.@
SAFE Is Le ENA EVER NINA OIE NADLER
S. 1465

At the request of Mr. Tatmapce, the
Senator from Texas (Mr. BENTSEN) was
added as a cosponsor of S. 1465, the Farm
Credit Act Amendments of 1979.

S. 1874

At the request of Mr. Bayn, the Sen-
ator from Missouri (Mr. EaGLeToN) and
the Senator from Arkansas (Mr. Bump-
ERS) were added as cosponsors of S. 1874,
a, bill to amend the act incorporating the
American Legion so as to redefine eligi-
bility for membership.

S. 1978

At the request of Mr. Tatmanceg, the
Senator from Texas (Mr. BENTSEN) was
added as a cosponsor of S. 1978, to estab-
lish an improved program for extra long
staple cotton.

SENATE RESOLUTION 293—ORIGI-
NAL RESOLUTION REPORTED IN-
CREASING LIMITATION ON EX-
PENDITURES BY THE COMMITTEE
ON FINANCE

Mr. LONG, from the Committee on
Finance, reported the foltowing original
resolution, which was referred to the
Committee on Rules and Administration:

S. Res. 293

Resolved, That section 2 of Senate Resolu-
tion 52, Ninety-sixth Congress, agreed to
March 7, 1979, is amended by striking out
“$200,000" and inserting in lieu thereof
“$265,000”.

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
56—SUBMISSION OF A CONCUR-
RENT RESOLUTION AUTHORIZ-
ING THE REPRINTING OF A DOCU-
MENT ENTITLED “SYNTHETIC
FUELS”

Mr. MUSKIE submitted the following
concurrent resolution, which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Rules and
Administration:

S. Con. Res. 56

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That there shall
be reprinted for the use of the Senate Com-
mittee on the Budget three thousand five
hundred copies of its committee print of the
Ninety-sixth Congress, first session, entitled
“Synthetic Fuels”, a report to the full com-
mittee by the Subcommittee on Synthetic
Fuels.

SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION
57—SUBMISSION OF A CONCUR-
RENT RESOLUTION RELATIVE TO
THE ISSUANCE OF A COMMEMO-
RATIVE STAMP HONORING PHILIP
MAZZEI

Mr. DOMENICI (for himself, Mr.
Percy, Mr. DeConcint, and Mr. CHAFEE)
submitted the followed concurrent res-
olution, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Governmental Affairs:

S. Con. Res. 57

Whereas Philip Mazzei came to the United
States in 1773 at the urging of Benjamin
Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, becoming
ae, Ne oo F bet Pao

See, Wa

ane

~~

PS

rie. aan ee! ee a |e ee
tion;

Whereas upon arriving in this country he
wrote articles for the Virginia Gazette, which
he signed “Furloso”, strongly defending
political and religious freedom and the
American cause;

Whereas in 1774 he was elected to the
Committee of Correspondence for Albemarle
County, thereby helping to promote inter-
colonial solidarity;

Whereas in 1775 he wrote a series of ar-
ticles exploring philosophical grounds for
Colonial rebellion against England, using
the expression, “All men are by nature
equally free and independent”, which was
later formulated in our Declaration of In-
dependence by Jefferson;

Whereas in 1776 Mazzei, as a representative
of the Albemarle Freeholders, wrote “Instruc-
tions of the Freeholders of Albemarle County
to the Delegates in Convention”, which
greatly influenced Jefferson’s draft of the
Constitution;

Whereas in 1779 he was appointed agent
for Virginia in Europe, with the endorsement
of Jefferson and Patrick Henry, to obtain
loans for financing the Revolution, and ar-
rived in Europe only after spending three
months as a British prisoner;

Whereas in 1784 Mazzei was the chief orga-
nizer of the Constitutional Society, whose
purpose was to inform, explain, and instruct
the public on all political issues;

Whereas the two hundred and fiftieth an-
niversary of the birth of Philip Mazzei will be
celebrated on December 25, 1980; and

Whereas no foreign-born contributor to
the revolutionary cause of Italian descent
has been so honored though ten other coun-
tries of origin have been commemorated:
Now, therefore, be it

Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That it is the sense
of the Congress that—

(1) the Postmaster General and the Citi-
zens Stamp Advisory Committee should give
favorable consideration to the issuance of a
commemorative postage stamp in honor of
Americans of Italian descent and the two
hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the birth
of Philip Mazzei on December 25, 1980, or as
soon as possible thereafter; and

(2) the Postmaster General and the Citi-
zens Stamp Advisory Committee should
honor other foreign-born contributors to the
revolutionary cause, especially contributors
whose country of origin has not yet been so
commemorated, prior to the conclusion of
our Bicentennial celebration in 1983.

@ Mr. DOMENICTI. Mr. President, in 1783
Philip Mazzei came to the United States
at the urging of Benjamin Franklin and
Thomas Jefferson. From the moment of
his arrival, Mazzei was an active sup-
porter of the American Revolution. His
writings greatly contributed to inter-
colonial solidarity and influenced Jeffer-
son’s phrasing of the Declaration of In-
dependence. Since 1975, efforts made to
have a commemorative stamp honoring
Philip Mazzei have been unsuccessful.
Because of this failure, Mazzei remains
one of three foreign-born contributors
to the American Revolution that have yet
to be honored as part of our Nation’s
bicentennial celebration.

Earlier this year, Vice President Mon-
DALE made a statement that a Mazzei
stamp would be issued for the 250th an-
niversary of his birth. Instead, a postal
card was offered as a compromise. The
National Committee for the Mazzei
Stamp and other Americans interested in
the American Revolution, particularly
those of Italian descent, have made it
known that such a compromise is unac-
ceptable. They believe that if Philip
Mazzei’s contribution is to be made
known to the American public at large,
there is no better way than through the
issuance of a commemorative stamp on
the 250th anniversary of his birth.

That belief is central to the purpose
of the concurrent resolution I submit to-
day. This measure would declare it the
sense of the Senate that the Postmaster
General and the Citizens Stamp Advisory
Committee should give favorable con-
sideration to the issuance of a com-
memorative postage stamp in honor of
Americans of Italian descent and the
250th anniversary of the birth of Philip
Mazzei on December 25, 1980, or as soon
as possible thereafter. This is the time
to evaluate Mazzei’s historical and cul-
tural contribution to the United States.
There will be no similar opportunity to
give Italian-Americans the prestige they
deserve in early American history.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that an excerpt of an “Open Letter
to Congress,” from Sister Margherita
Marchione, professor at Fairleigh Dick-
inson University’s Florham-Madison
Campus and project director of “The
Papers of Philip Mazzei,” be printed in
the Recorp.

There being no objection, the excerpt
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

EXcERPr

Among the historical projects funded by
the NHPRC (National Historical Publica-
tions Records Commission), Philip Mazzei’s
name has been added to those of Washing-
ton, Jefferson, Madison, Adams, Hamilton,
Von Steuben, Lafayette and other historical
figures who contributed to the founding of
our Country. Besides a federal grant for the
third consecutive year, the “Papers of Philip
Mazzei” are sponsored by Unico National,
Columbia, Rosenhaus, Salvatori, and Vincent
Visceglia Foundations. This project, under
the auspices of Fairleigh Dickinson Univer-
sity, is housed in the Henry A. Salvatori Cen-
ter for Mazzei Studies. A staff of five re-
searchers have been at work for several
years and have processed over 2,500 docu-
ments which will be published in microfilm
for the 250th anniversary. This will be fol-
lowed by three volumes of selected docu-
ments. The entire project will cost
$500,000.00.

Philip Mazzei (1730-1816), a forgotten
patriot, is an historical figure in his own
right. On arriving in Virginia in 1773, he
resided on property adjacent to Monticello
and began the agricultural experiments for
which he left his native Italy.

An ardent supporter of political and reli-
gious freedom, Mazzei returned to
in 1779, as Virginia’s agent, to solicit funds
and army supplies. There he obtained useful
information which he forwarded to Jefferson
and other Founding Fathers.

Mazzet’s pamphlets, letters, and dispatches
reflect his enthusiasm for his adopted Coun-
try. He was a proud citizen of the United
States, knowledgeable about agriculture,
climate and soll, as well as details of trade
between the colonies and Europe. He also
gives social historians, economists, and so-
clologists insight into many areas of colonial
fe. His writings, before Thomas Paine’s, de-
fended the American Cause, and his four-
volume history on the United States, pub-
lished in French while his friend Jefferson
was minister to France, is, according to
Dumas Malone (the 1975 Pulitizer Prize
Winner for History), “one of the best of its
time on its subject.”

In 1784 Mazzei was the chief organizer of
the Constitutional Society, whose purpose
was to inform, explain, and instruct the
public on all political issues.

As a representative of the Albemarle Free-
holders in 1776, Mazzei sent his “Instruc-
tions” (a plan to create a new government)
to John Page and Patrick Henry. A seven-
page unidentified document, “Instructions of
the Freeholders of Albemarle County to the
Delegates in Convention,” was published by
Julian Boyd in 1952 in “The Papers of
Thomas Jefferson.’ We have now located a
1776 draft in Mazzei's hand. Regarding Maz-
zel’s 1776 “Instructions” Boyd acknowledges
the fact that “Jefferson must have had [it]
before him in drawing up the present text.”
He is referring to Jefferson’s “Draft of the
Constitution for Virginia.” [May-June 1783].
A lengthy editorial note precedes Mazzei’'s
“Instructions” and Jefferson’s “Draft.” May
I quote from it (see “The Papers of Thomas
Jefferson,” Vol. 6, p. 282):

“Certainly there are striking similarities
between the instructions and his draft of
1783, as for example the insistence in the
former that “the fundamental Pillars of the
Constitution should be comprised in one Act
or Instrument, which should never be subject
to alteration but with consent of the people
at large.” In making no distinction as be-
tween the powers of the two houses of the
legislature, Jefferson's draft also is closer to
the instructions than to his own proposed
constitution of 1776."

We now know from the recently found
document-draft that Mazzei wrote the text
“Instructions of the Freeholders of Albe-
marie County to the Delegates in Conyen-
tion.” I concur with Professor Julian Boyd of
Princeton University who states in the above-
mentioned editorial note that Jefferson’s
“own draft-constitution of 1783 was influ-
enced by these views of the Albemarle in-
habitants.”

In the light of my recent findings and in
justice to the memory of Philip Mazzei—
whose contributions include the fields of mu-
sic, art, literature—all Americans will want
to honor him on the 250th anniversary of his
birth. In particular, Italian-Americans whom
you represent will be grateful for your sup-
port.@

WINDFALL PROFIT TAX—H.R. 3919
AMENDMENT NO. 717

(Ordered to be printed and to lie on
the table.)

Mr. MATSUNAGA (for himself, Mr.
TALMADGE, Mr. MoynrHan, Mr. DurkIN,
and Mr. Packwoop) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
them, jointly, to H.R. 3919, an act to im-
pose a windfall profit tax on domestic
crude oil.

AMENDMENT NO. 718

(Ordered to be printed and to lie on
the table.)

Mr. DOLE (for himself, Mr. Barn, Mr.
Packwoop, Mr. Taumance, Mr. Exon, Mr.
Percy, Mr. CHuRcH, Mr. McGovern, Mr.
Srewart, Mr. Baucus, Mr. NELSON, Mr.
McCtiureE, and Mr. Morcan) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by them, jointly, to H.-R. 3919, supra.

(The remarks of Mr. Dore when he
submitted the amendment appear else~
where in today’s proceedings.)

AMENDMENT NO. 719

(Ordered to be printed and to lie on
the table.)

Mr. LEVIN submitted an amendment

intended to be proposed by him to H.R.
3919, supra.
@ Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, this amend-
ment would make available the business
energy tax credit already in the bill for
other types of energy saving equipment
for the purchase of wind deflectors for
tractor-trailers. These aerodynamic de-
vices, mounted on the cab or upper front
of the trailer, improve the aerodynamic
design of the vehicles and cut the power
needed to move the truck through the
air. Since the aerodynamic drag increases
rapidly as speed increases, the horse-
power saved in highway operations
means less fuel burned. One manufac-
turer of nose cones, a name given to the
aerodynamic device mounted on the
front of trailers, has estimated the cost
per gallon of diesel fuel for moving a
tractor-trailer at 55 miles per hour.
Assuming a gallon of diesel fuel costs $1,
65 cents is used to overcome air resist-
ance and 32 cents is needed to move the
gross weight of a 45,000-pound tractor-
trailer.

Without a tax credit, the use of aero-
dynamic devices on new vehicles was 11
percent for the first 6 months of 1979, 12
percent in 1978, 11 percent in 1977, 13
percent in 1976, 3 percent in 1975, 1 per-
cent in 1974, and 1 percent in 1973. This
trend suggests two things. Market forces,
inflation, and higher energy prices have
played some role in encouraging invest-
ments in fuel saving components. Follow-
ing the oil embargo of 1973-74, the in-
dustry responded 2 years later. But after
this initial shock, the rate has actually
declined. Given the delayed response and
reluctance on the part of truckers to in-
vest in these devices a tax credit will
hasten this changeover to fuel efficient
devices.

With 12 percent of new trucks equip-
ped with these devices, the industry
saved 75 million gallons of fuel in 1978.
The savings are a conservative estimate
since this figure applies only to new
vehicles registered in 1978. It is estimated
that 70 percent of tractor-trailers over
33,000 pounds could effectively use wind
deflectors. And in a number of cases, fuel
savings resulting from the use of these
aerodynamic devices will accrue to
truckers operating tractor-trailers whose
gross weight is below 33,000 pounds. The
average fuel saving for this fuel efficient
component is 10 percent. Some trucking
firms report savings of 20 percent.

The Department of Transportation
sponsors a volunteer program called the
joint industry-Government voluntary
truck and bus economy fuel program.
This office publicizes fuel economy
studies and informs members of current
energy saving devices. The voluntary
program has 240 members, including all
major truck and bus manufacturers,
‘component suppliers, 145 motor carriers,
trade associations, trade press, and Gov-
ernment agencies.

I first anticipated an amendment
covering several energy saving com-
ponents for trucks. But given the success
of the voluntary program, and the work
of the market place, such additional in-
ducements and cost to the Federal Gov-
ernment seemed unnecessary. For in-
stance, variable fan clutches, whose
average fuel saving is 6 percent, repre-
sented 4 percent of the market in 1973
while in 1978 they represented 75 per-
cent of the market. Radial tires, whose
average fuel savings are also 6 percent,
have grown from 3 percent of the market
in 1973 to 30 percent in 1978. On the
other hand, aerodynamic devices repre-
sent only 12 percent of the market with
a potential for 70 percent. I believe a tax
credit would provide additional incen-
tives for truckers to invest in these areo-
dynamic devices and to realize energy
savings they might not otherwise realize
in the years ahead.

The cost of this credit is minimal. The
Joint Committee on Taxation estimates
the cost to be less than $5 million in 1980
with a cumulative cost of $100 million
over the 10-year period.@

AMENDMENT NO. 720

(Ordered to be printed and to lie on
the table.)

Mr. LEVIN (for himself, Mr. Rrsrcorr,

and Mr. Percy) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by them,
jointly, to H.R. 3919, supra.
@ Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I am today
filing an amendment to the windfall
profit tax bill, to provide a tax credit for
public utilities which undertake pro-
grams to finance conservation invest-
ments for their residential customers.
I am very pleased to have as cosponsors
of this amendment Senators Risicorr
and Percy, chairman and ranking mem-
ber of the Governmental Affairs Com-
mittee, respectively, both of whom have a
long and impressive record of support for
energy conservation programs.

The National Energy Conservation
Policy Act, passed by the Congress last
year, contained a general prohibition on
involvement by utilities in financing the
supply or installation of residential en-
ergy conservation measures, except for
installations costing less than $300 or in-
stallations made by those few utilities in
States where financing programs were in
Place prior to the adoption of the pro-
hibition.

Since adoption of that measure last
year, considerable evidence has emerged
as to the efficacy of utility-financing pro-
grams. Because of their access to financ-
ing capital, their frequent contact with
customers, and their ability to weigh the
relative costs and benefits of supply-in-
creasing versus demand-reducing capital
investments, conservation-financing pro-
grams run by utilities offer great poten-
tial for energy savings.

As a result, the Senate only a few
weeks ago, in S. 932, voted to repeal the
prohibition on utility financing. The
House is considering legislation which
-

CN TTR EO ere Ot wti et

ee

aS -:.—UCUU re

would have the same effect and thus the
chances are excellent that all public
utilities will soon be able to undertake
conservation financing programs.

Setting up such programs will involve
a new expense for utilities who decide to
participate, and I believe that it is in the
national interest to provide an incentive,
through the tax code, for utilities to do
so. My amendment would provide a 50-
percent credit for the administrative ex-
penses attributable to a program of fi-
nancing residential conservation invest-
ments, if that program meets the re-
quirements of the National Energy Con-
servation and Policy Act, or, in the case
of a regulated utility, such requirements
as the State regulatory authority may
impose. The remainder of the cost of the
program would be recovered in whatever
manner the State regulatory commission
chose to allow, and the amendment in-
sures that no utility can recover more
than the cost of the program.

Mr. President, I believe that this
amendment will provide a significant
incentive for public utilities to become
involved in the financing of residential
conservation and I hope that my col-
leagues will adopt it.@

AMENDMENT NO. 721

(Ordered to be printed and to lie on
the table.)

Mr. LEVIN submitted an amendment

intended to be proposed by him to H.R.
3919, supra.
@ Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, small sav-
ers, during periods of high interest rates
and artificially low interest ceilings, are
not receiving a fair return on their lim-
ited savings. Clearly, the low ceilings of
regulation Q discriminates against those
who keep savings in passbook accounts.
They cannot afford the minimum
amounts required by certificates of de-
posit. The Senate only a few weeks ago
passed legislation addressing this prob-
lem. However, the benefits of eliminat-
ing regulation Q and lowering the min-
imum amounts of certificates of deposit
will not be realized for some time.

My amendment is tailored to these
circumstances. It is also direct, equitable,
and targets the assistance to the small
saver without complications.

I am not satisfied with the small saver
proposals to date. The small saver ex-
emptions before us are regressive. A $100
exemption is worth $50 to someone with
a 50-percent tax rate while the same ex-
emption for a middle- or lower-income
individual is worth only $15, if his ef-
fective tax rate is 15 percent for instance.

My amendment would provide a credit
of up to $20 for interest earned from a
passbook account from a credit union,
savings and loan institution, or a com-
mercial bank. The amendment would in-
crease the amount of the credit to $25
in 1982 and to $30 in 1983.

The $20 credit in the first year equals
or is greater in value than an exemption
of $100 for taxpayers in the $20,000 range
or below. The $20 credit is worth almost
twice as much as the $100 exemption for
an individual earning $10,000 a year.
With the $20 credit in 1981, the cost to
the Treasury would be $1 billion, in 1982
tO

ore? orm

“her ae.

it

 Meror a

wo

with a $25 credit, the cost would be $1.:
billion, and in 1983 with a $30 credit, th
cost in revenue would be $1.6 billion ac:
cording to estimates from the Joint Com-
mittee on Taxation.

Similar estimates over 3 years for the
$100 to $300 exemption are $6.2 billior
compared to $3.9 billion over 3 years fo!
my amendment. Further, the effect o!
my amendment will target the relief tc
middle and lower income taxpayers pro-
portionately better than a $100 exclusion
According to the Joint Committee or
Taxation, 49.8 percent of the revenue
cost of my savings credit amendment
will be distributed among individuals
with adjusted gross incomes of $20,000 o1
less. The comparable figure for the $100
exclusion is 35.6 percent.

By 1983 other incentives for the small
saver such as minimum amounts for
certificates of deposit, higher interest
rate ceilings, and improved economic
conditions might alter the need and ef-
fectiveness of the tax credit. My amend-
ment would allow Congress to remove or
improve the incentive depending upon
the need. The credit would expire (unless
renewed and expanded) at the time
other incentives for savings were in
place.

My amendment does not require regu-
lations defining qualified reinvestment
plans or a time sequence for reinvest-
ment of dividends. It is not encumbered
by restrictions and regulations as to eli-
gible taxpayers. It is straightforward
and equitable. Everyone can take advan-
tage of it as long as they have earned
some interest from a passbook account.
It does not require individuals to with-
draw funds from other interest bearing
accounts in order to qualify for an ex-
emption. Most importantly, more small
savers will realize the greater value of
the tax credit than if a tax exemption
was offered.

The following table shows the revenue
cost with a $20 credit in 1981, $25 credit
in 1982, and a $30 credit in 1983. In the
remaining years, it is assumed the $30
credit is extended until 1990.

AMENDMENT NO. 722

(Ordered to be printed and to lie on
the table.)

Mr. WEICKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to
ELR. 3919, supra.
© Mr. WEICKER. Mr. President, I sub-
mit an amendment to H.R. 3919 for the
purposes of providing necessary fund-
ing to enhance this Nation’s capabilities
to prevent, respond, and clean up oil
from our marine environment.

On November 1, 1979 I addressed the
floor concerning the Mexican oil spill in
the Bay of Campeche. I expressed con-
cern over the impact that spill would
the ability of the Coast Guard and the
rest of the Federal Government to deal
effectively with future oil spills.

I am still concerned about the ability
of members of the national response
team to deal with spills attendant to
current OCS drilling and production not
to mention possible future accidents in
the harsh marine environments such as
the Beaufort Sea or on Georges Bank,
one of the world’s richest fishing
grounds.

Considering the small quantity of
equipment available to contain and clean
up the massive volumes of the Cam-
peche spill, the best that the efforts of
the Coast Guard, NOAA, and industry
can be considered is a useful training ex-
perience. Furthermore, some of the
equipment used was damaged, and some
destroyed. Other Coast Guard equipment
was destroyed during containment of the
oil spilled from the tanker collision and
sinking off of Galveston, Tex.

In view of the recent spills in the Gulf
of Mexico, it is imperative that we pro-
vide the Coast Guard and other members
of the national response team with the
support necessary to develop capabilities
and knowledge to deal with oil spills.

In 1978, the Coast Guard prepared a
plan for supplementing Presidential ini-
tiatives concerning oil pollution re-
sponse. That plan alone requires approx-
imately $70 million to implement. Fur-
thermore, the plan addresses many of
the provisions I believe are necessary to
increase the Coast Guard's ability to
contain and clean up future oil spills.

The National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration has begun a re-
search program designed to characterize
and comprehend immediate and long-
term aspects of the Campeche spill.
However, current program requirements
indicate a fund shortage on the order
of $5 million. Additionally they will re-
quire approximately $10 million per year
to properly study the effects of pollution
on the marine environment.

Experience at Campeche proved that
Federal agencies worked effectively with
private industry and, in the best tradi-
tion of Yankee ingenuity, were able to
improvise. Nevertheless, the experience
indicated continued research and appli-
cation of present technology on all fac-
ets of marine oil spills is necessary.

Windfall profits derive from oil and
gas production and in significant meas-
ure from foreign operations. It seems
to me just and fitting that a portion be
allocated to improve the capability to
prevent, contain, and mitigate marine oil
spills off our shores to permit exploita-
tion of oil and gas from the OCS in an
environmentally compatible manner. It
is in this spirit that I offer the follow-
ing amendment.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of the amendment be
printed in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the amend-
ment was ordered to be printed in the
Record, as follows:

AMENDMENT No. 722

On page 179, insert the following after
line 21:
(a) AvTHOoRIzATION.—There is hereby au-
1orized to be appropriated to the Secretary
' the Treasury for the United States Coast
uard sums equal to 7/10 of one percent per
nnum not to exceed $100,000,000 per annum,
om the windfall tax established under sub-
tle D of chapter 45 of the Internal Revenue
ode of 1954 for the period beginning Octo-
sr 1, 1981 and ending September 30, 1990.

(b) Use or Funps—Funds appropriated
nder subsection (s) shall be used for the
urposes of carrying out the marine oll spill
sponsibilities of the National Response
eam pursuant to the National Oil and
azardous Substances Pollution Contin-
ency Plan (40 CFR part 1510) and any revi-
ons thereto.@

ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS

RAN: FIRMNESS WITH RESTRAINT
IS STILL APPROPRIATE

| Mr. CHURCH. Mr. President, this is a
me of great emotional stress for the
amilies of the Americans still held hos-
age in Iran. Indeed, it is a moment of
reat tension in the life of our entire
fation.

For this reason, I wish to express my
upport for the views expressed by Presi-
ent Carter in his news conference last
ight.

The President bears an enormous bur-
en of responsibility. He is clearly a hu-
ane man who has experienced, to an
xtraordinary degree, the pain and an-
uish of this insult to America and to the
ntire civilized world.

It is no easy thing for the leader of a
reat nation to exercise restraint in the
ace of such extreme provocation. We
ave the power to wreak havoc on Iran.
ndeed, the time may come when the
Inited States may be compelled to take
fern action against the regime of the
yatollah Khomeini—if only to make
lear to other lawless elements in the
rorld that we will not submit to black-
1ail or tolerate the abuse of our citizens.

Mr. President, I too share the frustra-
ion that is a natural outgrowth of this
ng ordeal. But we should refrain from
suing any ultimatum at the present
ime lest we disrupt a process which may
Pegs to a peaceful resolution of this

Pressure against Iran is building in the
orld community. It must inevitably be-
ome apparent to those who now govern
ran that they have nothing to gain—
nd a great deal to lose—by continuing
his outrage which has been condemned
y the whole world, including every other
slamic country.@

‘AXFLATION MEANS YOU CANNOT
PLAN AHEAD

) Mr. DOLE. Mr. President, the Con-
umer Price Index rose 1 percent in
rctober giving no signs that the rate of
nflation will abate in the near future.
f a full-fledged recession ensues, as
1any predict, our citizens will be se-
erely squeezed from both sides.

However rapidly prices rise, you can
e sure that taxes will rise even faster.
0 long as the tax law is blind to modern
Aon pagybheeerter eRe tea et ee er
rract a tax penalty from people whose
somes rise to match inflation. Because
the progressive structure of the tax
tem, a 10-percent rise in income
ans about a 15-percent rise in taxes—
2n when the income gain is on paper
ly, the result is inflation. Thus tax
enues, and the real rate of taxation,
e automatically in periods of inflation.
Dne consequence is the growth of the
vernmental sector of the economy at
> expense of the private sector. Unless
are convinced that, dollar for dollar,
> Government can put this money to
re productive use—a doubtful prop-
tion—we owe it to ourselves to see
at can be done about this automatic
ift of revenues to the Government.
Mr. President, there are countless rea-
is why this issue should be a matter
critical concern to this Congress. Con-
er the case of the employee who con-
putes to a retirement fund during his
rking life. With most such plans, em-
ees are permitted to defer taxes on
rnings set aside for retirement. Taxes
> due after retirement, when the fund
drawn on. In theory, taxes should be
ver then because retirement income
uld tend to be lower than income
med during one’s working life.

But with double-digit inflation, it is
ely that retirement income will be
ther than it was in many of the on-
2-job years. Because of this—a conse-
ence of the distortion of nominal in-
me by inflation—the retiree will also be
a higher-than-expected tax bracket.
t only is the purchasing power of re-
ement income greatly reduced by in-
tion, that income may also be taxed
re heavily than it would have been
the on-the-job years.

Mr. President, this is just one example
the way inflation distorts the tax sys-
n and makes it impossible for people
plan their financial future. The rules
the game keep changing. The way to
tify the problem is to pass the Tax
ualization Act, S. 12. I have intro-
ced this legislation to stabilize tax
tes by automatically adjusting tax
ackets, the zero bracket amount, and
e personal exemption according to the
te of inflation. Tax equalization would
ing the income tax in line with
anges in the economy, and would
ify everyone’s tax liabilities. I urge
; colleagues to work for its adoption.@

IFENSE SPENDING INCREASES TO
GAIN SALT VOTES

Mr. MOYNIHAN. Mr. President, Rich-
d Burt, in this morning's New York
mes, reports on “an unusual meeting
Capitol Hill last night.” Attended by
cretary Brown, about a dozen Sena-
‘s from both parties, and former Sec-
aries Schlesinger and Kissinger, the
bject was the increase in defense
ending contemplated by the admin-
ration in order to gain votes for the
.LT treaty. Apparently, the adminis-
ition has agreed to a very substantial
crease in military spending for the
xt five years.

It is perhaps proper to think of this
oceeding as the adoption of a de facto

amendment to the Senate’s instrument
of ratification, saying in effect that this
treaty shall not be ratified unless, so to
speak, there are “significant and sub-
stantial increases” in military spending.
I myself have supported, in a Senate
vote, a 5-percent real increase in defense
spending in the coming years, and I am
not inclined to quarrel with the adminis-
tration if it now perceives the need to
do this. It is rather to remind the ad-
ministration that just as a majority of
the Senate supported a real increase of
5 percent in defense spending, so too—
in my judgment—does a majority of the
Senate favor a SALT arrangement which
will bring about “significant and sub-
stantial reductions” in strategic weap-
onry. My sense is that somehow, the
administration does not yet take this
sentiment as seriously as it takes the
sentiment favoring those necessary in-
creases for our conventional forces. This
is a profound mistake.

The administration is taking our votes
for granted. Worse than cynical, this
could be the blunder that defeats the
SALT treaty and those of us who want
to see a reduction in nuclear weapons
fear that SALT will produce just the
opposite.@

THE LAPWAI MISSION

@ Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, today
is the 143d anniversary of the founding
of the Lapwai Mission in what is now
Idaho. Indians have been a proud part of
Idaho history for at least 10,000 years.
Idaho is enriched by the vivid past of our
Indian nations.

Today I especially want to honor the
Nez Perce Tribe of Idaho, whose head-
quarters is near the former Lapwai Mis-
sion site. Their tribal population is 2,537;
their reservation population, 1,600.

In February of 1836, the Reverend
Henry F. Spalding and his wife, Eliza
Hart Spalding, joined Dr. and Mrs. Mar-
cus Whitman in an effort to establish a
Christian mission in the Northwest. The
previous year Whitman had traveled
through the area with a party of fur
trappers. They traveled up the Missouri
River just as Lewis and Clark did. They
went by boat as far as they could; and
then went on foot over what was later
known as the Oregon Trail. When the
party reached the Green River in Wyo-
ming, they were met by a number of In-
dians. The Indians were friendly and
were very interested in what Whitman
told them. They wanted to know more
about the white man’s God. They wished
missionaries and doctors to come help
them.

Dr. Whitman was very interested in
building a mission among the Indians. He
decided to return East and find someone
who would come with him to help these
Indians as soon as possible. After he
reached home, Henry Spalding agreed to
come to the Oregon country with him.
Both men married before they started
the next spring, and they brought their
wives to the Western wilderness with
them. Mrs. Whitman and Mrs. Spalding
were the first white women to come into
what is now Idaho.
See The oe ee ae Oe ee We vee, Oh eee ewe. oe Sw eee OF

a ee, oe a,

When Dr. Whitman had left the Nez
Perce Indians at the rendezvous on the
Green River, he had told them to meet
him there the next year. He was not
disappointed. They were greeted by a
large number of Nez Perce Indians. Men,
women, and boys and girls had made the
long trip on horseback to meet the new
teachers who were bringing what the
Indians called the White Man's Book
of Heaven.

The party entered Idaho near Fort Hall
and followed the Snake River to old
Fort Boise. From there they crossed
into what is now Oregon. Later, after
visiting Fort Vancouver, Dr. Whitman
returned and built his mission near the
present city of Walla Walla, Wash.

Reverend Spalding picked the site for
his mission home near the present city
of Lewiston, Idaho on Lapwai Creek,
or “place of the butterflies.” The Spald-
ings were a very successful teaching
team; besides religious training, Mrs.
Spalding taught the Nez Perce women
how to card, spin, weave, knit, and sew.
She is also credited with opening the
first school in Idaho.

Reverend Spalding brought with him a
few seeds to the new Idaho territory, en-
abling him to introduce agriculture to
the State. Spalding planted the first Ida-
ho potatoes, and built the first rudimen-
tary irrigation system for the dry but
rich Pacific Northwest soil. He con-
structed the first sawmill and gristmill,
and raised the first domestic livestock
in small herds.

The Lapwai Mission witnessed the ar-
rival of the first printing press in the
Northwest, and the Spaldings were the
parents of the first white child to be
born in Idaho, a little girl named Eliza
after her mother.

The Lapwai Mission was discontinued
after the Whitman Mission massacre of
1847, but Reverend Spalding was able to
start it up again 24 years later in ac-
cordance with President Ulysses 5S.
Grant's peace policy with the American
Indians. Spalding’s second period of mis-
sionary service was brief—he died short-
ly after it was reopened—but the mark
he and the Nez Perce Tribe made in the
history of Idaho is undying.@

DR. KISSINGER’S STATEMENT ON
THE CONTROVERSY OVER THE
SHAH

@ Mr. TOWER. Mr. President, the entire
American Nation has witnessed with an-
guish and with mounting anger the spec-
tacle of American diplomatic personnel
held hostage to mob rule in Iran. The
American people have rallied as one in
condemning this gross violation of inter-
national decency and law and in reject-
ing the blackmail threats of the Iranian
radicals.

It is therefore particularly shocking to
me, and to many of my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle, to learn of state-
ments by senior administration officials
seeking to lay much of the blame for
these shameful events in Iran at the feet
ROZOP PR aaON

en eaae

ae

te Omit

we

ermanliro

of former Secretary of State Henry Kis-
singer.

The administration’s distorted and
partisan attacks on Dr. Kissinger are
totally unwarranted by the actual facts
of the matter. They jeopardize the de-
velopment of an effective national re-
sponse to the Iranian situation. They
jeopardize the fate of the Americans held
hostage in Iran and endanger Americans
elsewhere who may be similarly threat-
ened by radical blackmail. They discredit
not the target of their attacks, but them-
selves.

In focusing on, and in distorting, the
issue of to what extent Dr. Kissinger may
or may not have influenced the adminis-
tration’s decision to let the Shah enter
the United States for medical treatment,
a decision I believe to have been correct,
administration officials miss the point
that it has always been an honored
American practice to let those who seek
assistance and refuge enter our country
and that it is not the Shah, but the
Iranian radicals, who are violating all
norms of international behavior and who
are to blame for the current situation in
which American diplomats are held as
hostages and in which the United States
is being blackmailed.

At the same time, of course, these
senior administration officials seem to
forget that the Shah was an important
and loyal friend of the United States and
@ man who, in comparison with other
leaders in his region—and most especially
in comparison with his reactionary suc-
cessors—was a progressive reformer and
modernizer, recognized as such by seven
American Presidents. Two years ago it
was President Carter who rightly praised
Iran as “a very stabilizing force in the
world at large,” and last year it was
President Carter who rightly praised the
Shah for the “progressive attitude”
which was “the source of much of the
opposition to him in Iran.”

An important statement on these mat-
ters has now been issued by Dr. Kissinger
himself and was printed this morning
in the Washington Post. In his state-
ment, which responds to the Washington
Post’s request for a response to the ad-
ministration’s charges, Dr. Kissinger de-
scribes the campaign undertaken against
him by senior officials in the White
House and in the Department of State
and he details, in terms of his own ac-
tions and assessments, what actually
occurred.

The former Secretary of State also of-
fers a thoughtful analysis of the broader
policy implications of the administra-
tion’s rather incredible treatment of the
issues involved. He urges Americans to
join in considering both the moral stat-
ure of our Nation and the need to elicit
trust and support among other nations,
especially moderate regimes. I believe
that all of my colleagues can agree with
Dr. Kissinger’s call for an end to partisan
controversy and for a closing of ranks
in support of achieving an honorable out-
come to the Iranian crisis.

I urge my colleagues to read Dr. Kis-
singer’s statement in full, and I submit
the statement for the Recorp.

The statement follows:
Only the president of the United States
can solve the present crisis, and I believe all
Americans, of whatever party or persuasion,
owe him our support and our prayers.

I have made no criticism of the president's
handling of the crisis. My public comments
in New York on Noy. 7, in Dallas on Nov. 10
and in Los Angeles on Nov. 11 all called for
national unity behind the president. A senior
White House official told me at breakfast on
Noy. 21 that, on the basis of fragmentary.
news ticker reports, remarks I had made in
Austin on the foreign policy challenges of
the 1980s were subject to misinterpretation.
I offered to put out an immediate clarifying
statement expressing support for the presi-
dent in this crisis and calling for unity. (In-
deed, I suggested that Jody Powell draft it.)
The offer was ignored.

Since then I have read and heard myself
described by high White House officials as
acting deviously and dishonorably; as advis-
ing the shah—strangely enough—to seek the
advice of our government about whether to
stay or leave this country; and as having
exerted pressure to get him here in the first
place.

This campaign struck me as all the more
remarkable against the background of a call
by me on the first day of the crisis to Deputy
Undersecretary of State Ben Read in which
[ told him that I would not criticize the
administration for its handling of the crisis
either during its course or afterward; it
could be sure that I would do my utmost to
keep the crisis and its aftermath insulated
from partisan controversy. The administra-
tion was well aware that from the first I have
been calling congressional and other leaders
urging restraint in comment. In short, it is
not I who has been courting controversy in
the middle of a national crisis.

As for my own involvement in recent
events, ironically it began at the administra-
tion’s initiative. In the first week of Janu-
ary 1979, a senior official of the State Depart-
ment asked my help in finding a residence
for the shah in the United States. Our gov-
ernment had concluded, I was informed, that
the shah must leave Iran if the Bakhtiar gov-
ernment were to survive the efforts of Ayatol-
lah Khomeini to obtain total power. If I
could find a suitable domicile in America, the
shah might overcome his hesitation and
hasten his departure. I doubted the analysis
put acceded to the request. I called David
Rockefeller for help. Mr. Rockefeller ex-
pressed his personal sympathy for the shah
but also his reluctance to become involved In
an enterprise that might jeopardize the
Chase Manhattan Bank’s financial relation-
ships with Iranian governmental or quasi-
governmental organs. I then appealed to his
brother Nelson; with his help, a suitable resi-
dence was located. A week later the shah left
rn Two weens Mtterwardl Neleon Rooketetler:

Thus David Rockefeller's later role was
hardly spurred by economic considerations as
has been alleged; it ran, in fact, contrary to
his commercial interests. He was motivated
by his desire to carry out the legacy of his
later brother and his devotion to the princi-
ple that our nation owed loyalty to an ally
who had been loyal to us. This was my view
as well, and remains so.

Less than two months later—in mid-
March—another senior official of the De-
partment of State urged me to dissuade the
shah, who had spent the intervening period
in Morocco, from asking for a U.S. visa until
matters settled down in Tehran. I refused
with some indignation; David Rockefeller
was then approached. He too refused. When
Rockefeller and I inquired whether our gov-
ernment would help the shah find asylum
in another country, we were told that no

-¥

Be®Suptrrseveoradcz

Peseuyepseyregig
plated.

This I considered deeply wrong and still do.

Every American president for nearly four
decades had eagerly accepted the shah's as-
sistance and proclaimed him as an impor-
tant friend of the United States. Presi-
dent Truman in 1947 awarded the shah the
Legion of Merit for his support of the Allied
cause during World War II and in 1949
praised him for his “courage and farsight-
edness" and his ‘earnestness and sincerity in
the welfare of his people.” President Eisen-
hower in 1954 paid tribute to the shah for
his “enlightened leadership.” President Ken-
nedy in 1962 hailed the shah for “identify-
ing himself with the best aspirations of his
people.” President Johnson in 1964 lauded
she shah as a “reformist 20th-century mon-
arch” and in 1965 praised his “wisdom and
compassion .. . perception and statesman-
ship.” President Nixon in 1969 declared that
the shah had brought about “a revolution
in terms of social and economic and political
progress.’ President Ford in 1975 called the
shah “one of the world’s great statesmen.
President Carter in 1977 praised Iran as “
very stabilizing force in the world at large”
and in 1978 lauded the shah for his “progres-
sive attitude” which was “the source of much
of the opposition to him in Iran.” Such quo-
‘ations could be multiplied endlessly.

And they were correct. In my own experi-
ence the shah never failed to stand by us. In
the 1973 Mideast war, Iran was the sole
American ally adjoining the Soviet Union
which did not permit the overflight of Soviet
rransport planes into the Middle East. In
1973-74, Iran was the only Middle East oil-
aban country that did not join the oil

against us; it continued to sell oil
fo the US” to Israel and to our other allies.
iran kept its oil production at maximum ca-
yacity (thus helping stabilize the price) and
never used oil as a political weapon. The
shah was a source of assistance and encour-
wgement to the forces of moderation in the
Middle East, Africa and Asia; he used his
wn military power to ensure the security
of the Persian Gulf and to discourage adven-
ures by Tadicals. He firmly supported the
eace process that culminated in the Egyp-
jlan-Israeli treaty; he was a defender of
President Sadat against radical forces in the
urea. After his initial advocacy of higher
orices in 1973, he used his influence to keep
whe prices steady so that the real price of oil
sctually declined over the period from 1973
9 1978 (due to inflation) .

The crisis we face in 1979—the 65 percent
nike in oll prices, the cutback of Middle East
il production, the radical challenges to the
9eace process and the rise of anti-American
‘fanaticism in the whole area—is the price we
are paying for the absence of a friendly
egime in Iran. The conclusion is inescapable
shat many of the shah’s opponents in Iran
2ate him not only for what he did wrong, but
iso for what he did right—his friendship
‘or the United States, his support for Mideast
yeace, his rapid modernization, his land re-
‘orm, his support for public education and
women's rights; in short, his effort to bring
fran into the 20th century as an ally of the
‘ree world.

I do not doubt that wrongs were com-
nitted by the shah’s government in his long
‘ule; the question is how appropriate it is to
‘aise them, after four decades of close asso-
‘lation, in the period of the shah’s travail.
( have been deeply worried about the foreign
policy consequences of spurning him. What
will other friends of the United States in the
area, in comparably perilous situations and
perhaps even more complex domestic circum-
stances—leaders essential for a moderate
evolution of the whole region—conclude if
we turn against a man whom seven Ameri-
san presidents had lauded as a loyal ally and
’ progressive leader?

Sse

os
oa

Sa pi suakcaseyeudreabad ai ceioeeniasie aedence
P refuge had nothing
to do with a scheme of restoring him to
power. I have stated publicly that we should
seek the best relations possible with the new
authorities in Tehran. I simply assert that
it is incompatible with our national honor
to turn our back on a leader who cooperateu
with us for a generation: Never before have
we given foreign governments a veto over
wno can enter our country as a private
citizen.

Between early April and early July, I put
these considerations before three senior offi-
cials in phone conversation. And I called
twice on Secretary of State Vance in the same
period. The upshot was a refusal to issue a
visa explained by the tenseness of the situa-
tion in Iran. In April I delivered a public
speech stating that I thought it morally
wrong to treat the shah as a “flying Dutch-
man looking for a port of call.”

In other words, I made five private ap-
proaches on this subject to the government—
none after July. Such was the “obnoxious”
pressure, as George Ball has called it, to
which our government was subjected.

When it became apparent that our govern-
ment would not help the shah and that he
was unable to stay any longer in Morocco,
David Rockefeller and I did what we could
to find him a place of refuge. David Rocke-
feller was able to arrange a temporary stay
in the Bahamas. In April and May, I appealed
to the government of Mexico. To its enormous
credit, it had the courage to extend a visa
even though—as one official pointed out to
me—Mexico was being asked to run risks on
behalf of a friend of the United States that
we were not willing to assume ourselves.

Once the shah was in Mexico, David Rocke-
feller, John McCloy and I tried to be helpful
with private matters on a personal basis. The
education of the shah’s children in America
was the principal issue. We did our best to
find appropriate schooling; this raised the
issue of visas. Contacts with our government
were handled by Mr. Rockefeller’s assistant,
Joseph Reed, and John McCloy. Mr. McCloy
repeatedly urged the Department of State to
designate an official with whom the shah’s
entourage could communicate on such
matters without using our group as inter-
mediaries. Such a contact point was never
established.

This was the state of affairs when the shah
fell ill early in October. As it happened, I
was out of the country from Oct. 9 to Oct.
23 and had no communication with any level
of the government about the matter. While
in Europe, I kept in touch with the Rocke-
feller office but did not intercede personally
with any official or agency of the govern-
ment—though I would have had it been
necessary. My understanding is that Joseph
Reed presented the medical records to Under-
secretary Newsom and on the basis of those
records the administration admitted the
shah for treatment. I am not aware that
there was any hesitation. To the administra-
tion’s credit, no pressure was needed or exer-
cised. I gather that the medical facts spoke
for themselves. All of us conceived that the
reaction in Tehran would have to be evalu-
ated by the administration which alone had
the relevant facts.

As for advice to the shah about whether or
not to leave—the subject of other strange
stories—the situation was as follows. With
conflicting threats emanating from Tehran as
to the impact on the safety of the hostages
of a movement by the shah, Rockefeller, Mc-
Cloy and I concluded that it was inappro-
priate for us to advise the shah. Rockefeller
called the president on Nov. 15 to ask once
again for the designation of an individual
who could accurately convey the govern-
ment’s recommendations to the shah’s en-
tourage. McCloy stressed the need for this
to the deputy secretary of state on Nov. 20.

agreed with our approach. No such point of
contact has yet been established. We were
given no guidance; therefore we made no
recommendations to the shah as to what he
should do when and if his medical condition
permits him to leave the United States.

I reaffirm my support for the effort to
assure a measure of decency toward a fallen
friend of this country. The issue of the shah's
asylum goes not only to the moral stature
of our nation but also to our ability to elicit
trust and support among other nations—
especially other moderate regimes in the area.
I do not condone all the practices of the
shah’s government, though they must be as-
sessed by the standards of his region and,
even more, the practices of those who will
sit in judgment. Yes, we must seek the best
relations which are possible with the new
dispensation in Iran. But we shall impress
no one by engaging in retrospective denigra-
tion of an ally of a generation in his hour
of need. We cannot always assure the future
of our friends; we have a better chance of
assuring our own future if we remember who
our friends are, and acknowledge what
human debts we owe those who stood by us
in our hours of need,

I hope this ends the controversy. I think
it is imperative that all Americans close
ranks. Nothing will more strengthen the
president's hand in pursuit of an honorable
outcome than a continuing demonstration of
national unity now and in the aftermath of
the crisis. I shall do all I can to contribute
to this end.@

COOPERATIVE INTERNATIONAL
WHEAT PRICING

@ Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. President for
well over a, year I have, together with
other interested colleagues in the Sen-
ate, been a strong advocate of interna-
tional cooperative pricing agreements
among the world’s pincipal wheat ex-
porters, the United States, Canada, Ar-
gentina, and Australia. Together they ac-
count for over 85 percent of all the
wheat that moves in international com-
merce.

Senator BeLtmon, Senator MELCHER
and I have traveled to Winnipeg at the
invitation of Canadian legislators led
principally by Canadian Senator Hazen
Argue, the chairman of the Senate Agri-
culture Committee in the Canadian Par-
liament. Senator Argue’s group of Cana-
dian legislators share our concern and
seek world wheat prices at figures which
at least reflect North American costs of
production plus a reasonable profit. The
Canadian National Wheat Board, the
national marketing agent in Canada,
met with us and is generally supportive
of such a move. Additional meetings
have been held here in Washington.

The useful and informative section of
the Washington Star entitled “Point of
View” which daily carries comment on
timely events written by private citizens,
carried, on November 29, 1979, an article
by Warren C. Robinson, a professor of
economics at Penn State University, en-
titled “The Case for a Wheat Cartel,”
which discusses the thesis other Sen-
ators and I have propounded. Though
we come up short of proposing a “cartel”
in the classic sense of the OPEC ar-
rangement, Professor Robinson’s com-
ments come close to the areas we haye
discussed with the Canadians. Perhaps,
;
J
q
d

eR maga PR OP ese Ne SS, Fay SRS I
of Americans are equal in validity to our
policy makers’ reliance on so-called ex-
pert opinion.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the text of Professor Robin-
son’s article to which I have referred
be printed in the Recorp.

The article follows:

THE CASE FoR A WHEAT CARTEL
(By Warren C. Robinson)

We have all gotten used to the idea that
“America Feeds the World” and, if this is
true, it’s puzzling to find the United States
on the defensive in international trade and
finance. The “cheaper crude or no more food”
notion has been received enthusiastically by
the grass roots, yet the reception has been
cool in Washington.

This is understandable. Government
policy-makers pay experts for advice and
listen to them. Experts listen only to other
experts (if they listen to anyone at all). In
any case, one does not expect serious eco-
nomic policy to originate with a disc jockey.

Yet perhaps it should. The creation of So-
cial Security owed more to an obscure re-
tired physician, Dr. Francis E. Townsend, and
the mass movement he launched in 1934 than
to farsighted political leadership. Let us
rather ask whether there is a valid idea be-
hind the slogan.

What about the formation of a cartel to
do approximately the same thing for wheat
prices that OPEC has done for oll prices?
Could it work?

Objection: There are too many wheat-
producing countries to make a wheat cartel
workable.

Reply: In fact, there are far fewer wheat-
exporting countries of any consequence than
oil-exporting ones. Over 80 percent of wheat
exports In recent years were supplied by four
countries: the United States, Australia,
Canada and Argentina. The U.S. alone repre-
sents some 40 percent.

Objection: Wheat can be replaced by many
other food grains and cereals in human con-
sumption.

Reply: True, and so can petroleum be re-
Placed as a source of energy. But the sub-
stitution of rice or potatoes or some other
source of carbohydrates in family diets would
be difficult for many nations. (The U.S. is
also in a strong export position in corn, soy
beans and rice.)

Objection: High wheat prices will en-
courage other nations to increase supply for
their own domestic use and also for export.

Reply: Certainly, almost any country can
produce wheat, but the dominance of the
grain trade by a handful of countries is
based on historical-geographical advantage.
The price must rise considerably before it
is possible for Saudi Arabia, for example, to
become an efficient wheat producer.

Objection: An international price-fixing
agreement would cause U.S. food prices to
rise also.

Reply: Not necessarily. The government
could calculate anticipated U.S. domestic
needs and undertake to export only the “sur-
plus.” A two-price system requires only that
the government act as the sole exporter of
wheat.

Objection: The OPEC nations import a
minor fraction of the world grain trade.

Reply: The OPEC nations as a bloc account
for about half the world’s wheat

Objection: Such blatant self-interest ‘in
foreign economic policy will invite retalia-
tion and open economic warfare.

Reply: Perhaps. But is it not equally pos-
sible that OPEC and other nations may come
to see the United States as an adversary
which has finally learned the new rules and
must be taken seriously again?

Perhaps the greatest objection to such a

Raa

Bs

*

SBbBAr rr Bae

idea. But it’s to accept the realities of
our present situation. The traditional goal of
free multilateral trade and the picture of a
U.S. so strong it can ignore foreign economic
assaults serve us ill in today's world.

We must gain new leverage in world trade.
“Cheaper crude or no more food" may be a
simple-minded suggestion taken literally,
but it may also be a useful idea. Policy-
makers in Washington should, one might
argue, take fresh ideas these days wherever
they can find them.

EASTCHESTER HIGH SCHOOL STU-
DENTS PETITION TO SAVE THE
CAMBODIAN PEOPLE

@ Mr. JAVITS. Mr. President, last week,
I was visited by a group of students from
the Eastchester High School in East-
chester, N.Y., who had made a special
trip to Washington personally to deliver
a petition “for the survival of the Cam-
bodian people.”’ The petition was signed
by over 1,000 students from the school
and expressed their “total concern and
anxiety” over the Cambodian situation
and the “unneeded death of the Cam-
bodian people.” Several students had also
written personal letters to the Cambodian
authorities, pleading with them to allow
all international relief efforts to proceed
without interference.

Mr. President, all the Eastchester stu-
dents, under their supervisor Mr. Schroe-
der, who have become so personaiiy in-
volved in the tragic plight of the Khmer
people, should be commended for their
highly developed sense of civic and inter-
national responsibility. Their concerns
have been mirrored by thousands of my
constituents and demonstrate the Amer-
ican commitment to the responsibilities,
as well as the benefits, of being a super-
power. I reiterate my deep concern that
the other great superpower, the Soviet
Union, demonstrate its willingness to
take on the duties that come with being
a major force in the world by seeing that
their Cambodian and Vietnamese allies
allow massive relief supplies to enter
Cambodia.

Mr. President, I request that the East-
chester High School petition be printed
in the Recorp, along with a letter from
one of the students.

The material follows:

A PETITION FOR THE SURVIVAL OF THE CaM-

BODIAN PEOPLE

To: The President o. ‘Tne wuited States; The
U.S. Senators from The State of New
York; the U.S. Congressmen from The
State of New York; The Secretary Gen-
eral of The United Nations; The Presid-
ing Officer of The Security Council; The
Premier of Cambodia; Pope John Paul
II; American Ambassador to The United
Nations; All To Whom This May Concern.

From The Eastchester High School Adminis-
trators, Staff and Students.

We, the school community of Eastchester
High School in Eastchester, New York, seeing
the suffering beyond the bounds of human
endurance of innocent people whose agony
is caused by circumstances entirely beyond
their control, urgently beg, urge, cajole, ad-
jure, implore and beseech you to immedi-
ately put forth a plan of action that will
move food and medicine into Cambodia to
avoid the unneeded death of the Cambodian

people.
We cannot understand politics entering
into this issue of humanity. Borders and
political ideologies must be secondary
the human right to live and the human need
to be nourished.

Besides expressing our total concern and
anxiety, we hold ourselves available jointly
and severally, to assist you in any manner
at our disposal to ensure the survival of a
proud and ancient people.

Dear Mr. HENG Sarin: I am a student in
the United States, and it has been brought
to my attention that the people in your
country need help. I urge you to allow food
to be distributed. I wonder how you feel
leading a nation of dying people. There was
an article published in a well known maga-
zine in the U.S., about the situation in your
country. This article begged the people to
help. I have no money to send but I can send
my support. Please, sir, find it in your heart
to let the people of your beautiful country
lve! The country’s future is in your hands.

SHARON BOOKER.@

ADDRESS TO U.S. CONFERENCE OF
GENERALS

@ Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. President, this
morning I was privileged to address 75
generals of the United States at a con-
ference here in Washington sponsored by
the Chief of Staff of the U.S. Army.

I ask that the text of my remarks be
printed in the Recorp.

The remarks follow:

‘THEATE® NuctEAR Forces AmERIcA CaN NEco-
TIATE From STRENGTH
(By Senator Gzorczr McGovern)

I want to thank you for the invitation to
appear today. For you are the new generation
of military leaders and thinkers. The defense
of our country for the rest of this century
is your responsibility.

Your generation is knowledgeable and ex-
perienced not only in military strategy and
weapons capabilities—but in arms control
theory and practice as well.

T am sure you have read and thought more
about arms control than any other group of
military officers in our history.

Military defense and arms limitation are
not incompatible alternatives. They are two
sides of the same coln—protecting our secu-
rity and lowering the threat of war.

You know that effective arms control
agreements can make your job easier—by
reducing Soviet capabilities and by clarify-
ing Soviet intentions.

But today we have to admit that arms
control as practiced thus far has largely
failed. Despite ten years of SALT negotiations
and several agreements, the military threat
is rising and Soviet political intentions are
still ambiguous.

Soviet officials might conclude roughly the
same thing.

Instead of genuine reductions, arms con-
trol has meant building up to disarm. Your
force planning is more uncertain because
weapons systems and the military budget
are horse-traded for SALT votes.

The failure of arms control—the building
up to reduce—the escalatory impact of rati-
fication—all these are paradoxes of our time.

Let’s face it: bending metal for new weap-
ons is more popular than bending an ear
with new arms control schemes. In a world
of big budgets, big bureaucracies and big
stakes, arms control competes as a cripple in
a tough arena.

But did bending the metal for MIRVs
make us more secure?

Will allowing warhead expansion under
SALT II protect Minutemen?

In fact, cosmetic arms control agreements

Se help you any more than they satisfy

ae

eoterarmnenau

wtoe FP ens oa vacea*n BOK ae
SAS CURE, FES SEH 10U VECese tL ie
had too much impact on force levels but
because it has had too little impact.

We need a new type of arms control pol-
icy—one which actually reduces the military
threat targeted against us, clarifies national
intentions and saves precious taxpayer funds.

A new bipartisan consensus in favor of a
more effective arms control strategy has
emerged from the SALT debate.

Almost every one of the dozens of SALT
witnesses before the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee—military and civilian,
Democrat and Republican, politician and
academic, hawk and dove—supported a
mutual arms reduction approach to SALT.

A Resolution I offered in Committee calling
for genuine mutual reductions in SALT IIT
passed the Committee by a 15-0 vote—draw-
ing the support not only of SALT supporters
but Treaty critics as well, including Senators
Baker and Helms.

This new consensus gives me hope. But it
means that we cannot afford any more busi-
ness as usual in arms control.

Today, the biggest test for a new type of
arms limitation strategy is the theater nu-
clear force issue in Europe.

The term “theater modernization” is a
misnomer. The Administration is considering
deploying Pershing II ballistic missiles and
Ground-Launched Cruise Missiles capable for
the first time in recent years of striking
Soviet territory from European soil. This is
@ new deployment concept and a landmark
decision for NATO—not merely the upgrad-
ing of some old systems. It is not an evolu-
tionary step. We may or may not need to take
this step—but we should approach it with
open eyes about its genuine historic
significance.

We are on the verge today of a new
theater arms race in Europe. The Soviet
Union in recent years has begun upgrading
its theater forces with SS-20 and Backfire
deployment. Concerns have been raised that
any Soviet advantage would open Europe to
nuclear blackmail because Soviet theater
forces could control the ladder of escalation
while strategic parity between the U.S. and
the Soviet Union inhibits us from trading
Chicago for Bonn or Paris.

As a result, pressure is growing for us to
deploy comparable systems for the first time.

These Soviet developments do require a
response. Continued unrestrained Soviet
modernization will produce significant politi-
cal instabilities which will undermine the
security of our NATO allies. There are also
legitimate concerns about obsolescent tacti-
cal systems which are either useless or make
command and control more risky—such as
the 1,000 tactical nuclear warheads we are
preparing to withdraw from Europe.

But there is an alternative response to
new American deployments—the arms limi-
tation response to halt and reduce the Soviet
build-up through tough negotiations.

Why do I think an arms control solution
is feasible? Let me first explain why it is
desirable.

Our allies have nothing to gain militarily
from an unrestrained nuclear arms competi-
tion in Europe. Soviet weapons have been
modernized but their numbers have been
relatively constant over the past decade.
Western Europe will feel more threatened if
the numbers of SS-20’s and Backfires ex-
pand endlessly or if the Soviets develop their
version of the Ground-Launched Cruise Mis-
sile and dot their countryside with these
lethal and unverifiable weapons. The priority
should be to reduce the threat now, not to
establish a meaningless parity at ever higher
and more destructive levels.

NATO strategy is based on the twin pillars
of defense and detente. In the United States,
we tend to evaluate detente by Soviet be-
havior in Africa or Cuba.

But as those of you have served in Europe
know, detente means something else to
Europeans. It means to them a recognition

wo ey a

BoeoroersaeeraoegktoweKeKeKronnto- rn amonte mene

S2dorPaepHe ap
OF She BCO-pouvical reaivies Of their exist-
ence—and it means greater trade with the
East, more visits by relatives to families
still in Eastern Europe, and a better climate
for human rights.

Europeans want us to maintain a strong
defense—and the United States has re-
sponded with 3 percent real growth in de-
fense outlays, the Long Term Defense Pro-
gram and other NATO initiatives.

But Europeans also want us to
the importance of detente. That is why many
of them think differently about SALT or
Soviet troops in Cuba or playing the China
card than we do. As they say, “Berlin is not
near Peking.”

An arms control solution to the TNF prob-
lem will better serve these political aspects
of European security than will new deploy-
ments. Having nuclear weapons capable of
reaching the Soviet Union from Germany
could add a new and troubling development
in East-West relations. Just as we reacted in
1962 to medium-range Soviet missiles in Cuba
as a strategic threat, the Soviets may react to
TNF deployments as changing the strategic
balance. A military and political counter-
reaction may follow. It is my strong impres-
sion that nothing would so profoundly in-
crease Soviet fears and tensions as would the
institution of new nuclear weapons in Ger-
many and other NATO countries. Deploying
without first attempting to negotiate Soviet
limitations on their theater forces could
bring these adverse consequences. At least
this is a development we need to weigh seri-
ously as one of the potential costs of new
deployments.

The political aspects of European security
are also critical for public support for NATO
within the Alliance nations. Already the TNF
issue has caused major divisions of opinion.
This week, the Danish Prime Minister urged
@ postponement of the upcoming December
deployment decision. The Dutch Government
faces serious and perhaps even fatal political
opposition on this issue. The Belgians are
watching the Dutch. The Germans seem both
ready and reluctant to deploy.

An arms control solution—at least a seri-
ous effort to achieve one before rushing into
deployments—will solidify European opinion
in a positive manner.

Finally, the connection between deploy-
ments and SALT III negotiations raise seri-
ous arms control difficulties.

‘These arguments in favor of an arms limi-
tation solution are buttressed by the serious
shortcomings in the arguments in favor of
quick deployment.

First, I question whether a perilous
theater imbalance exists in Europe at this
time. Our theater systems have formidable
nuclear capabilities—from our own Poseidon
SLBMs, French ICBMs and SLBMs, American
F-llls, F-104s and F-4s, French Mirages,
British Vulcans, our carrier-based aircraft
and so on. We possess enough theater mili-
tary force to deter any rational Soviet mili-
tary leader for the foreseeable future.

As military professionals, you know that
force evaluation is not just a bean-counting
exercise. You look at utility, reliability, sur-
vivability and other qualitative factors. The
Warsaw Pact has more systems, but when
the authoritative and independent Interna-
tional Institute for Strategic Studies evalu-
ated theater systems by discounting the
numbers with qualitative factors, it con-
cluded—“that something very close to parity
now exists between the Theater Nuclear
Forces of NATO and the Warsaw Pact, al-
though it is moving in favor of the Warsaw
So I reject the view that there is an im-
minent military crisis or that Europe is sub-
ject to blackmail.

Second, I question the assumption that
strategic parity neutralizes the U.S. nuclear
umbrella for Europe. The purpose of deter-
rence, after all, is to create enough uncer-
tainty in the minds of Soviet leaders about
an American reaction to forestall any aggres-
sive action. Our central systems already have
enough flexibility to create that doubt. It isa
myth that we can only retaliate against So-
viet cities.

Third, the political doubts among our allies
about our credibility as a nuclear guarantor
of European security predate the TNF issue
and will outlast its resolution. Charles de
Gaulle doubted our commitment to trade
Chicago for Paris or Bonn at a time of un-
questioned U.S. strategic superiority. France
withdrew from NATO only a few years after
the Cuban Missile Crisis—hardly the era of
a leaky umbrella.

Even today, the permanent doubters of
American credibility who are also the strong-
est advocates of TNF deployments are un-
able to explain why the U.S. would be any
more willing in the future to push the button
launching Cruise Missiles or Pershings than
we are now to launch the hundreds of the-
ater delivery systems and thousands of war-
heads and bombs already deployed in Europe.
There is no political magic in this new tech-
nology.

The doubts of our allies are a structural
problem of the Alliance caused by the geo-
political differences within NATO. Europe is
a forward-defense theater for us but the
strategic homeland of Europeans. As long as
the ocean separates us, doubts will persist
about trading Chicago for Bonn. The doubts
are a political problem, not a military one.

We need to provide genuine and meaning-
ful reassurances to our allies.

The Soviet theater nuclear threat is also a
familiar problem. It has existed for twenty
years, long before the SS-20 was ever heard
of. An arms control solution can solve this
dilemma with the least costs and the most
benefits. It is ironic that many Europeans
who favor TNF deployment don’t favor too
much deployment or even parity lest a new
theater capability decouple Europe from our
strategic guarantee.

Before turning to our arms control lever-
age, let me question one final assumption—
the belief that we can fight a Mmited coun-
ter-force nuclear war in Europe. As military
professionals, do you accept this as a realistic
scenario or a thinkable option? I see limited
nuclear war as a contradiction in terms—
because nuclear weapons, even small ones,
are designed for unlimited and total war-
fare.

In densely-populated Europe, could we or
the Soviets really separate counter-value
from counter-force targets?

Could you launch a theater weapon against
the Soviet Union and rely on Soviet powers
of discrimination and rationality not to re-
gard it as a strategic attack because it came
from a GLOM in Germany rather than from
@ silo in South Dakota?

I just cannot believe either we or the
Soviets could control escalation or prevent a
limited war from mushrooming into the in-
cineration of Europe or a global nuclear holo-
caust. The military rationale is still uncon-
vincing.

For these reasons, I do not believe our
current military or political position in
Europe warrants a hasty and unconsidered
leap toward new deployments of theater nu-
clear weapons unless and until an arms con-
trol solution has been tried.

The United States is now in strong bar-
gaining posture towards the Soviet Union—
perhaps stronger than in any previous arms
control encounter in history.

The Soviets perceive TNF as a strategic
threat to their homeland. As a result, they
appear willing to go to unprecedented
lengths to prevent it. They clearly fear these
weapons and European deployment more
than anything else. They have even been

CXXV- 2141—Part 26

pressured into making the unilateral gesture
announced by Brezhnev in October to with-
draw 1,000 tanks and 20,000 troops from East
Germany and to offer to reduce Soviet
theater systems in exchange for no new
NATO increases.

Whatever the sincerity of this initiative, I
am sure you can appreciate the extraordi-
nary political struggle which must have
taken place in the Kremlin over its formu-
lation. This gesture reveals the depth of
Soviet apprehension. 4

A second element strengthening our hand
is the fact that the expiration of the Protocol
to the SALT II Treaty on December 31, 1981,
imposes a tight deadline on the Soviet Union.
Any Soviet ploy to keep NATO GLCM deploy-
ments on ice will unravel after the Protocol’s
range deployment limitations run out. The
pressure is on the Soviets because they want
to preserve these limitations. They are the
ones facing the gun.

Third, NATO nuclear force modernization
is already coming on line. Decisions affecting
theater forces are being made now. French
nuclear capabilities will quadruple in the
next few years. The British are moving to
replace Polaris with more numerous and more
lethal Tridents. Our F—111 squadrons in Brit-
ain have been beefed-up and plans are un-
derway to increase B-52 facilities in Europe.
The Trident I is being backfitted into Posei-
don.

These too should stimulate Soviet re-
sponses if they are serious about negotiations.

Fourth, the Soviets should have no doubts
about the intention of the Alliance to ad-
dress the TNF issue. The Soviets would not
have made their proposal in Berlin unless
they perceived the threat as real.

Indeed, it has been remarked that the So-
viet Union may be the only country which
really believes that TNF deployments will
occur.

But there is also the action of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee during the
SALT II mark-up to emphasize the success
of our SALT Negotiators on the right of the
Alliance to transfer technology, to preserve
traditional patterns of military cooperation,
and to require Senate approval for extension
of the Protocol while denying it any prece-
dental value.

These elements give us great b:
strength. Under these conditions, there is no
reason to fear to negotiate. We should recog-
nize our advantages and strengths and trans-
late them into an effective arms control
strategy for the TNF problem.

But today I must seriously question
whether the Administration plans to pursue
& meaningful arms control solution for TNF
or instead intends to use arms control as a
fig leaf to cover a deployment decision.

There are several grounds for seriously
questioning the Administration’s NTF arms
control approach.

The first is that an irreversible decision
at the December NATO Ministers meeting to
deploy TNF weapons may jeopardize our
bargaining leverage and make effective arms
limitation almost impossible.

The United States bargaining posture is
like a fighter ready to throw a punch. Our
fist is raised and ready to go. The Soviet
Union clearly fears the punch and appears
to be willing to negotiate seriously, at least
by all visible indications.

But once we go ahead and throw the
punch by irreversibly commiting ourselves
to deployments, the threat loses its capacity
to elicit concessions and instead sets off a
Soviet military counter-reaction.

Our threat to deploy is credible without
necessitating an irreversible deployment
commitment in December. We can negotiate
without first building up. The Soviets seem
to view it as a credible threat. For them, the
bargaining chip of U.S. deployments is al-
ready on the table—we need to make sure
—_—P oe

that we don’t diminish its value by cashing
it in too early.

I am also concerned about the Admin-
istration’s so-called “two-track” or a “paral-
lel track" policy of seeking deployments plus
arms control simultaneously. It sometimes
appears that the deployment track is a four-
lane highway while the arms control track
is a dirt road. Our policy statements, our
pressure on the NATO alies for deployment
commitment, our back of the hand response
to the Brezhnev initiative, and the linking
of TNF deployments to SALT votes in the
Senate all lead me to conclude that the de-
ployments decision is the engine pulling the
whole policy forward while arms limitation
is the caboose.

But the whole history of the arms race,
especially the MIRV experience, indicates
that it is extremely difficult to negotiate
downward once deployment decisions have
been made. These GLCMs and Pershings have
already generated a powerful political, mili-
tary and economic constituency. Failure to
deploy will later be opposed as a failure of
will. Indeed, cruise missiles were intended
originally to be the bargaining chip for
SALT Il—now they are turning into the
headache of SALT III.

The so-called two-track approach strikes
me as a cliche. How can the government
function with two policies and two bureauc-
racies each seeking a contradictory outcome?
At least the burden of proof must be borne by
those who believe the two-track strategy will
encourage rather than obstruct arms control.

The fact is we have a potent program ready
to come on line, a Soviet offer to negotiate,
great bargaining leverage, and a Research
and Development program for GLOMs and
Pershings which can proceed without an ir-
reversible deployment decision for many
months. 9

The Soviet offer contained in Brezhnev's
October 6th speech is intriguing. We should
test Soviet intentions by probing with a seri-
ous counter-offer to determine whether it is
@ serious offer or a mere ploy. We don’t
know what the Soviets are prepared to con-
cede in terms of SS-20 production and de-
ployments to influence our new and existing
programs. And we need to move quickly—to
find out before reaching the 1983 Initial
Operating Capability of the GLCMs by which
time the Soviets will have doubled their SS—
20 and Backfire deployments.

I also agree with Chancellor Schmidt of
West Germany that our responses to the So-
viet initiative should include a consideration
of making a constructive impact on the So-
viet succession struggle.

I urge President Carter to give the highest
priority to an arms control solution to Euro-
pean theater weapons. The basic principle
should be to attempt to negotiate restric-
tions of significant military and political
value before making any irreversible com-
mitment to a specific pattern of deployment.
The issue right now is not whether to deploy
or not to deploy. Deployments cannot begin
in any event until 1983. The real issue is
whether to pursue an arms control strategy
and how to make it the most effective strategy
possible.

I cannot predict or propose the best format
for this strategy and I do not want to shift
attention from substance to form. The main
substantive point is that arms control should
be the centerpiece of our response in the
coming months and that any decision to de-
ploy should be clearly contingent on the fail-
ure of the arms limitation approach. This
can be achieved without disrupting the
RDT&E program or the procurement sched-
ule.

A variety of forms would be acceptable. I
have strong sympathy for the proposal by
Danish Prime Minister Anker Jorgensen to
delay any deployment decision by six months
until the Soviet offer is investigated.
But the NATO consultations may be too
far advanced at this point to delay the de-
ployment decision in December. In that
case, the December meeting should not go
further than a conditional decision—to make
clear that deployment will occur in the
future only to the extent that arms control
does not succeed.

Our policy bureaucracy and the Soviets
will receive a stronger message if we say
that we will not deploy unless arms control
fails rather than saying we will deploy
unless arms control succeeds.

I recommend these approaches to the
deployment decision as the best way to
maximize our bargaining leverage.

I don’t want us to end up ten years from
now in as bad shape on TNF as we are today
on strategic weapons after ten years of the
SALT process. GLCMs in Europe threaten
to be as destabilizing to the 1980’s as
MIRVs have been in the 1970's. I want arms
control to do more to lower the threat dnd
reduce force levels or at least to help us
learn for a certainty that the Soviets are
not willing to compromise.

As a great nation, we have a responsibility
to make this effort. It is not a path of uni-
lateral restraint—it is a strategy of bar-
gaining from a position of strength. And I
fear if we cannot make it succeed in this
case, your task will be all the more difficult
in the years to come.@

MAYOR TEDDY KOLLEK OF
JERUSALEM

@ Mr. McGOVERN. Mr. President, one
of the most impressive leaders it has been
my privilege to know as a friend over
the years is the longtime mayor of Jeru-
salem, Mr. Teddy Kollek. I have long be-
lieved that the spirit which he has mani-
fested as a wise and compassionate
mayor points the way for lasting peace
and justice in the Middle East. He is a
great credit to his city, to his nation,
Israel, and to the international family.

I ask that an article about Mayor
Kollek by Mary Hadar, printed in the
Washington Post of October 21, 1979, be
printed in the Recorp.

The article follows:

THE Ho.y Terror or THE Hory Crry
(By Mary Hadar)

“I have an ambition,” says Teddy Kollek.
“I want to be mayor exactly 3,000 years after
King David made Jerusalem the capital of
Israel.”

The anniversary will come in nine years,
when Kollek will be 77 years old. He leans
forward conspiratorially.

“I don’t necessarily mean that in a literal
way. But it’s a good way to get in how long
we've been around.”

It’s been 14 years since Kollek assumed
that post, caretaker of the city held holy
by the three monotheistic religions. It re-
quired a certain amount of finesse for an
unabashed Zionist like Kollek to carry it off.

He is an outspoken politician who, in his
drive to assert the Jewish right to Jeru-
salem, has incurred the wrath of Israel's rul-
ing party as well as countless politicians
abroad. He snubbed Vice President Walter
Mondale until Mondale, in his private ca-
pacity and counter to American policy,
agreed to cross into the Arab part of the
city. But he was the only major Israeli offi-

cial who agreed to meet Jesse Jackson on his
Middle East mission last month.

He can charm the pants pocket off a pro-
spective donor to one of his cultural causes
and the next minute reduce an assistant to
tears with a torrent of verbal abuse. Earlier
this year, Kollek so enraged an ultra-
orthodox rabbi that the rabbi placed a Jew-
ish curse on him.

His bursts of temper have earned him the
enmity of many he has to work with. When
religious demonstrators attacked police in
1972, he angrily told a religious politician
the rioters “should have their bones broken.”

When a parent from the wealthy Rehavia
neighborhood protested loudly over school
conditions, the mayor countered with an
equally loud, “Kiss my 4 - -.’

When a telephone operator at the Jeru-
salem Religious Council refused to put his
call through, he ordered the treasurer to cut
off all funds to the council.

Once he broke a glass table top by pound-
ing furiously upon it because a mew secre-
tary continued to call him “Mr. Kollek”
instead of Teddy.

He is the holy terror of the holy city, and
in his personal interpretation of the mayor-
alty it is politics that is predominant: Vir-
tually everything he does has political over-
tones.

There were 48 dishes on the table, includ-
ing the leg of lamb in its thick bed of rice
and pine nuts, but there were only six people
to eat it all.

“My friend, there’s enough food here to
feed the entire municipality,” said the mayor.

“They told us 10 people were coming, so we
cooked for 20,” said the host.

Neither seemed perturbed.

‘Teddy Kollek looked around at his guests,
none of whom seemed to know where to
begin, and with his fingers ripped a chunk
of meat off the roast lamb and bit into it.

‘The occasion was lunch at the home of a
minor Arab functionary who had helped
avert a terrorist bombing. The reward, of his
choosing, was the opportunity to play host to
Kollek. In agreeing to allow a journalist to
accompany his contingent, Kollek made it
clear that details of the terrorist incident,
and the Arab’s actions, were off limits.

“You would certainly not mention his
name,” he said sternly, “or describe him so
he could be identified. We had a case like that
once—the man was shot dead on the street.”

All the guests were in short sleeves, but the
mayor, sensitive to his mission, wore a light-
weight sportcoat.

The host stood by the table, bringing soft
drinks and passing the food (“It’s forbidden
to eat with the guests,” he explained for the
fourth time). His wife, who had cooked the
meal, stayed in the kitchen. ,

Kollek led the conversation like a sym-
phony, changing the subject and the lan-
guage to suit his partner. To his host he
spoke of roadbuilding: “It'll take 10 years
until we get a decent road out here, good
schools, sewage. At least you have
water now; you never did before, right?”

To an author he talked publishing: “Natu-
rally my book didn’t sell so well—the pub-
lisher didn’t place a single ad for it.” To a
journalist it was public relations: “You want
to know what's bad luck? Fifteen years ago,
to make a gesture, Jack Javits decided to hold
his son’s bar mitzvah in Israel. And that’s
the week the New York Times went on strike.
Now that’s bad luck.”

The reason for the lunch was never
mentioned.

On the way back to the car, one of the
guests ventured that she had never eaten so
well in her life. Kollek struck a pose of mock
dismay, arms bent upward, jaw
“Would I invite you to a lunch that wasn’t
nice?”

The mayor sits in his office, wallpapered
with maps of Jerusalem. At 68, he looks 15
years younger, and his vigor is that of a man
in his prime. Here, where custom and climate
dictate a midday nap, he works a 12-hour
day, and then receives guests at home.

Only occasionally, when he dozes off during
other people's speeches, does the fatigue
show. Despite lined face and thick waist,

there is still something rakish, flirtatious
about him: “Would I invite you to a lunch
that wasn’t nice?” Wink.

Now, as he ponders the future of Jerusa-
lem, the intricate solutions to a frustrating
puzzle, his voice is weary. “Losing Jerusa-
lem,” he says, and the bloodshot eyes search
the ceiling for an appropriate metaphor, “I
would put it on a par with the Holocaust.”

As he makes this staggering comparison,
there is a perceptible undercurrent of irri-
tation in Kollek’s voice. He is tired of ex-
Plaining the same thing to so many people.

Twelve years of his 14-year reign as mayor
have been in the reunified city, and he
prides himself on his relations with the Arab
population. While he is sensitive to their
plight, he also thinks his administration has
a giant step for their material well-
. “We sometimes rub our victory in too
much,” he commented once. “The city is
going to stay united. We don't have to say
it six times a day—and we do.”

The sensitive issue of Jerusalem has been
pushed aside in the ongoing negotiations
among Israel, Egypt and the U.S. The State
Department has never recognized Israel's
annexation of East Jerusalem and to this
day maintains its embassy in Tel Aviv, re-
fusing to recognize Jerusalem as the capital.

Nor are the city’s Arabs wholly satisfied
with the situation. “Mr. Kollek is very hu-
mane,” says Ibrahim Dakkak, a Jerusalem-
ite who heads the engineer’s union on the
West Bank, “but only as far as Israelis are
concerned. When it comes to Arabs, I think
he is just as bad as Mr. Menachem Begin.
His sentiments cannot be hidden under his
wonderful smile.”

Furthermore, relations are practically nil
between Kollek and the Likud government.
“I think Mr. Begin is a terrible prime minis-
ter,” says Kollek, “but he has done the
greatest thing in history [by signing the
peace agreement with Egypt] and I am
praying for his health. He has to take it a
few steps further before someone else can
take over.”

Are you consulted about the negotiations
over Jerusalem, he is asked. “No,” he says.
It is the only one-word answer in an hour-
and-a-half-long interview.

“It’s a charade, you know,” says Kollek.
“It starts this way. The Americans say they
haven’t recognized East Jerusalem. Well, it’s
ridiculous, they haven't recognized West
Jerusalem either. They say East Jerusalem
is Arab territory. The moment they say it
Sadat must take a slightly stronger position,
and the Palestinian Arabs must take a
slightly stronger position than even Sadat.

“And Mr. Begin, you know, doesn’t help
with his very vocal phraseology—‘the indi-
visible capital of Eretz Israel,’ ‘this city that
never will be divided again.”

“All this unnecessary talking brings about
a difficult situation. It leads to a war of
words. It gives the impression that this is
a beleaguered city. The public declarations
and the reality are so far apart.

“I believe that 99 percent of the popula-
tion are satisfied with the way this city is
run. The State Departments of this world
are causing the trouble—especially the one
in Washington.”

Jerusalem. The broad stone steps of the
Old City descending into darker, murkier
alleyways, the fetid smell of too many people
living too close together, the sides of beef
hanging in the passages, which children
brush as they make their way to the shops.
The files. The women, veiled in black, bun-
dles of vegetables steady on their heads. The
steamy pungency of Turkish coffee, permeat-
ing the dark cafes where men sit endlessly,

18) bac! n.

. jeg pcorsaaag newer part of the city,
where stolid stone buildings squat in proces-
sion down the boulevards, where pine trees

and bougainvillea fight a ceaseless battle
with rubble and concrete dust. The bustle
of downtown, the crowded, tiny shops, the
sea of baby carriages, the constant shouting
match: Hebrew, Arabic, Russian, French,
English.

Within a 10-minute walk of each other
lie the holy places that have made the city
the focal point of three religions:

(The Holy Sepulchre, itself the scene of
feuds between Christian sects, where the
guard leads a visitor through the candle-lit
vaults to a dark opening at the crypt and
says in a hushed, awe-filled voice: “There.”

The “Wailing Wall,” the western wall of
the Second Temple, where rocking, praying
Jews dressed in black coats and furry hats
stuff bits of paper into crevices of the an-
cient stones with the same incantations that
have been offered for over 2,000 years.

The Dome of the Rock built just above
the wall, where hundreds, sometimes thou-
sands of Moslems heed the muezzin's wail
and kneel, barefoot, on the worn Persian
carpets.

Above all: Sunset. The city glows hot, the
stone buildings turn rose and violet. Who
could voluntarily relinquish such a city?

Kollek arrives in his office at about 6:30
each morning and passes his first hours in
comparative solitude, waking people up with
his phone calls. Slowly, the secretaries and
aides arrive, the letters pile up, the sched-
ule gets overbooked. Expletives are heard as
the mayor peruses the morning papers.

Rarely does he spend more than a few
hours at his desk: the day is filled with
meetings—with the city council, neighbor-
hood groups, visiting dignitaries, the con-
stant flow of journalists.

Critics have complained that his efforts
at public relations are invariably at the
expense of the city: “There’s something
wrong with his priorities,” says Meron Ben-
venisti, Kollek’s former deputy, now at
Harvard and no longer on speaking terms
with his former boss. “He doesn’t care much
for the institution of the city, he’s im-
patient with the byzantine bureaucracy. He
can’t get a single donation for the sewage
system, but he can get four parks.”

To criticism of this sort, Kollek responds,
“The fact is that everyone prefers doing
what he does well.”

While he strives to bring legitimacy to
the city, he has also brought it glamor. His
cultural projects—the Israel Museum, the
Jerusalem Music Center, @ writers’ and
artists’ retreat, an Aspen Institute session,
the Jerusalem Book Fair—have attracted
big names from the arts, ranging from Ar-
thur Rubinstein and Pablo Casals to Frank
Sinatra and Elizabeth Taylor, and even to
the leftist writer Simone de Beauvoir, who,
after her visit, made a moving speech sup-
porting the unity of Jerusalem.

Kollek has also escorted practically every
show business figure, short of Vanessa Red-
srave, around the city. One famous photo,
which he included in his autobiography,
shows him seated on the floor next to Mar-
ene Dietrich, his nose approximately even
vith her perfect calves. That photo in par-
ieular did him no good with his coalition
partners, the religious parties.

When he’s finshed with the meetings and
he tours, Kollek is apt to bring home with
1im the last person or group on his agenda,
ind his wife is expected to be ready to en-
ertain them. Tamar Kollek is used to serv-
ng as unofficial secretary and coordinator,
nd soother of the feelings of offended con-
tituents.

The Kolleks' phone is listed in the direc-
ory, Kollek, Teddy and Tamar. Jerusalem-
tes do not hesitate to call, but they do so
t their own risk.

One night at 11:30, when the mayor was
n consultation with an aide in his study,
m angry caller demanded of Tamar Kollek

He toeee mt rw Oey Kaa Nema sN a

oeoctory eHobe
why a certain concert was given in Tel Aviv
rather than Jerusalem. After inquiring
pleasantly whether the issue merited a late-
night phone call to the mayor at home, Mrs.
Kollek took down the complaint and passed
it on to her husband. When the aide left at
2 am., Kollek called the woman back and,
with impeccable Viennese charm, explained
why the concert could not be held in Jerusa-
lem.

Of the constant interruptions and the way
his job has consumed his personal life, Kol-
lek says simply, “My family took it and un-
derstood it. My friends I have lost. But I’ve
also lost patience for them.” The Kolleks
have a son and a daughter, both grown.

One other woman has stuck by Teddy
Kollek through crisis and thunder, and she
is Shula Eisner, his English-language secre-
tary. Reached at 1 a.m. by telephone (“Can't
talk now," she said repeatedly to daytime
calls), she recounted with cheerful obscen-
ity the start of her 14-year career with the
mayor, who was, at the time, working at the
Israel Museum, one of his pet projects.

“Actually, I just thought it would be nice
to work in the museum; I was 19 and look-
ing for any old job. On my way into the
building, I passed a girl coming out in tears;
I thought nothing of it at the time, but it
turns out she had just been fired by Teddy.

“While I was filling out the forms, I heard
his Hebrew-language secretary tell him, ‘You
better get along with this one, I’m getting
tired of training new ones.’ Of course I was
terrified.

“Then he called me in and asked me my
name, and when I told him Shulamith, he
said, ‘Well, I can’t yell such a long name
down the hall,’ and that was the end of my
name.” If you ask her name today, she will
tell you ‘Shula.’

“At the beginning,” Eisner said, “I found
it hard to take his abuse. Once he was giving
me hell for a mistake I didn’t make and I
finally worked up my courage and asked him
‘Why are you yelling at me, I didn’t type it,”
and he answered, ‘Because there’s nobody
else in the room.’”

Teddy Kollek grew up in Vienna in @
steadily increasing atmosphere of anti-
Semitism. Born in 1911 to a middle-class
businessman and the daughter of a merchant,
he spent his early years traveling with his
mother around Austria and Germany to
wherever his father was billeted as an officer
juring World War I.

The young Teddy (he was named for the
father of Zionism, Theodor Herzl) was tall
and blond and easily mistaken for a gentile.
But his family was observant, and assimila-
tion was out of the question. A Jew in Vienna
nad to make a choice, and Teddy made his at
age 11, when he joined his first Zionist youth
movement.

At first it was Hebrew songs and romantic
tories about Palestine. Gradually it grew
nto a preoccupation. The parents of the
young Viennese Zionists, who spoke a refined
3erman rather than Yiddish, were aghast to
ee their children quitting school for agricul-
ure and communal living.

The young Kollek, who yearned to go to
-alestine, was put to work by his movement
$ an emissary and group leader, and spent
is late teens and early 20s traveling around
zechoslovakia, Romania and Germany, mak-
ng recruits. During this time he met his
uture wife, Tamar, who was 17 and newly
von over to the Zionist cause. Romance
lossomed, but they shunned the bourgeois
nstitution of marriage. -

Not until 1935, when he was 24, did Kollek
et his certificate to go to Palestine. By that
ime, the larger stores in Vienna were refus-
ng to sell to Jews. He went alone, and in a
urry, Tamar came along some time later,
nd he married her despite his socialist
jeals because her tourist visa was about to
xpire. They were among the founders of the

COotrwemodaemMmMnon wMueUuUs oe

Focunp aan op
Galilee kibbutz of Ein Gev, and Kollek be-
came its first mukhtar.@

THE 75TH BIRTHDAY OF DR. MARY
CALDERONE, AND THE 15TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF SIECUS

@ Mr. JAVITS. Mr. President, later to-
day a double celebration of great sig-
nificance to Americans—parents, pre-
parents, grandparents, children and
young people—will take place in New
York City.

At a testimonial dinner to be attended
by many of her friends and associates,
supporters and admirers, Dr. Mary
Steichen Calderone, one of the world’s
leading authorities on human sexuality,
will be honored on the 75th anniversary
of her birth. At the same time, the or-
ganization Dr. Calderone cofounded and
still serves today as president, the Sex
Information and Education Council of
the United States (SIECUS) will cele-
brate its 15th anniversary.

Mr. President, ignorance and myths
about sexuality have, through the cen-
turies, caused tragic results in human
relationships—sexual violence, marital
distress, teenage pregnancy, venereal
disease and psychological maladjust-
ment. In 1964, a group of health care
professionals, aware of the many people
troubled by problems related to sexuality,
concluded that our society could no
longer ignore this vital concern.

They recognized that, in this complex
era of increased freedom and individual-
ism with its accompanying changes in
social values, adults and young people
alike need help in understanding the
personal and social responsibilities in-
volved in human sexuality. To create a
positive focus on this concern, they
formed the Sex Information and Educa-
tion Council of the United States.

While several hundred people are ex-
pected to toast Mary Calderone and
SIECUS at the dinner this evening many
Americans and others throughout the
world will give heartfelt thanks for her
courage and determination to speak the
truth about human sexuality and for
helping people to understand them-
selves and others as sexual human
beings.

Mr. President, Dr. Mary Calderone is
a Quaker and a direct descendant of
two distinguished Americans—her fa-
ther was Edward Steichen, one of the
world’s greatest photographers, and her
uncle was Carl Sandburg, the American
poet. She has been vilified for her views
and her dedication to knowledge and
enlightenment, especially in the early
days of SIECUS, when she stood like a
rock against attack. Today, she has
worldwide support from a broad range
of professions—medicine, psychology,
marriage counseling, social work, nurs-
ing, journalism, sociology, and from
members of religious and business com-
munities.

At 75, Mr. President, this remarkable
lady is a great grandmother. She has
known adversity and has struggled with
fear, ignorance, intolerance, and unhap-
piness. Through it all she has remained
2 dedicated American and brilliant
physician thoroughly devoted to her
mission.

And so today I pay tribute on her
75th birthday to Dr. Mary Steichen
Calderone, and bespeak for her many
more such anniversaries in the years
ahead.@

PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
COVERAGE

@ Mr. GOLDWATER. Mr. President, a
story in the November 28 Washington
Post by Larry Kramer indicated that
Charles Ferris, Chairman of the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) has
been politicking his fellow Democratic
Commissioners to insure that they vote
with him to force the television networks
to sell broadcast time to the Carter-
Mondale Election Committee. In fairness
it should be pointed out that Chairman
Ferris and Commissioner Brown took
strong exception to the implications of
the Kramer article.

However, yesterday, November 28,
1979, the Commission denied reconsid-
eration and affirmed its previous order
requiring the television networks to pro-
vide broadcast time to the Carter-Mon-
dale Committee. The networks are ex-
pected to appeal this decision. Although
the Commission has attempted to recon-
cile the competing interests, I do not be-
lieve that this Commission action will
end the debate on the general question
of reasonable access.

On October 30, 1979, I raised a question
about the desirability of amending the
language in the Communications Act re-
quiring “reasonable access by legally
qualified candidates for Federal office.”
There is a real question in my mind
whether broadcasters should be left with
complete discretion to decide when the
political season begins and how the can-
didates are to be given access—partic-
ularly Presidential candidates.

I have written the candidates for
President and the Republican and
Democratic national chairmen asking
for their recommendations for a legis-
lative solution. I also asked Chairman
Ferris for the FTC's recommendations.
Although I have not heard from Chair-
man Ferris, he was quoted in a recent
New York Times article to the effect
that legislation was unnecessary.

Mr. President, I am not sure which is
worse: To leave the decision on “reason-
able access’ to the television networks
or to seven Presidentially appointed
Commissioners, four of whom are usually
members of the President’s political

rty.

It seems to me that the Congress
should give serious consideration to pro-
viding more policy guidance to the FCC
so that the public’s ability to be informed
by television is not subject to the arbi-
trary discretion of the broadcasters or
the potentially political decisions of non-
elected FCC Commissioners.

I call on all parties who are interested
in the effectiveness of our political proc-
ess to join me in a search for an appro-
priate legislative solution. After the con-
clusion of any court proceeding on the
Carter-Mondale Committee complaint, I
Pe er eS ee li

od

-
e

will recommend to Communications Sub-
committee Chairman Hottines that he
schedule hearings on this issue.

Mr. President, I ask that Mr. Kramer’s
article be printed in the Recorp.

The article follows:

FCO Cuter Is Portrickinc To Pry TIME FoR
Carter Our or NETWORKS
(By Larry Kramer)

Tough internal politicking by Federal Com-
munications Commission Chairman Charles
Ferris may preserve a Carter-Mondale Elec-
tion Committee attempt to force reluctant
television networks to sell President Carter
®@ half-hour of prime time next month to
announce his candidacy.

The FCC has already ruled once for the
Carter campaign, finding 4 to 3 last week that
the networks acted unreasonably in refusing
to sell Carter the time he requested on any
of the four nights he requested, Dec. 4
through 7.

The networks argued that the request was
for too much time, and too soon, in view of
the rough ratings war they are engaged in.

If they sold Carter the time, the networks
said, they would have to sell similar blocks
of time to several other candidates asking
for the same exposure.

Instead, ABC offered a half hour in Janu-
ary, CBS offered five minutes at 10:55 p.m.
on Saturday, Dec. 8, and NBC offered nothing.

The Carter staff panicked. Being scheduled
to coincide with the announcement were
more than 2,300 house parties at which a
total of as much as $11 million could be
raised.

And the networks wouldn't even return
telephone calls from Carter's advertising
man, Gerald Rafshoon.

Finally, because the houseparty hosts
needed to send out invitations, the committee
settled on Tuesday, Dec. 4, as the night of
the announcement. Still the networks re-
fused to sell any time, choosing instead to
appeal last week’s FCC order that they act
in a more reasonable manner and find time
for Carter's show.

On Monday, rumors began to circulate
that one FCC commissioner who had earlier
voted in favor of the Carter-Mondale
committee, Democrat Tyrone Brown, might
switch his vote on the technical] reason that
two of the networks did offer something,
thus showing some reasonable attempt to
cooperate.

Brown was in Geneva at the World Admin-
istrative Radio Conference when the story
of his possible defection made its way around
Washington. Chairman Ferris placed a hur-
ried intercontinental phone call, and they
talked for an hour. And, as soon as Brown
returned to the United States yesterday after-
noon, Ferris was back on the phone to him.

Although no one is talking about that
phone call, Ferris indicated later that it was
his impression that a vote of the commis-
stoners today would be the same as last
week's, fayoring Carter.

On top of that, Ferris said, if the vote is
the same, the commission would likely draft
a “tight order” for the networks to offer
Carter some air time, and soon.

If the networks still do not comply, Ferris
said, the FCC would be left with no alterna-
tive but to begin revocation proceedings that
could result in withdrawal of broadcast li-
censes from the five television stations owned
by each network.@

SAVING CAMBODIA

@ Mr. PELL. Mr. President, the crisis in
Cambodia that is claiming the lives of
some 1,000 civilians a day has not end-
ed. Although the United Nations, the In-
ternational Red Cross, and many gov-
of

ernments and private groups around the
world have organized or contributed to
a large relief effort to save the starving
and sick in Cambodia, cruel political
maneuvering by the contending forces
for the control of Cambodia prevents
sufficient food and medicine from reach-
ing the Cambodian people.

Frank Valeo, the former Secretary of
the Senate, recently wrote a very per-
ceptive article for the Baltimore Sun
calling for a political solution as well as
relief for Cambodia.

I commend this article to my col-
leagues and ask that it be printed in full
in the Recorp.

The article follows:

SAVING CAMBODIANS, SAVING CAMBODIA
(By Frank Valeo)

WasHINGTON.—What is left of interna-
tional decency has spurred a relief effort to
save the lives of thousands of starving Cam-
bodians. Of necessity, this effort is being
directed initially to the refugees who have
fied Cambodia and are huddled in collective
misery in camps just across the Thai border.
‘The Red Cross, the U.N. agencies, church and
other organizations are participating in this
humanitarian endeavor. Along with others,
the U.S. government has pledged millions of
dollars for the relief work.

Thanks to this effort, most of the Cam-
bodians who reach the refugee camps in
Thailand can now be expected to survive. As
a nation, however, Cambodia may not be so
fortunate.

While the situation remains obscure, the
few foreigners, including three U.S. senators,
who have made the trip to Phnom Penh in-
dicate that the human suffering inside the
country is appalling. Nevertheless, the Heng
Samrin government in Phnom Penh rejects
all relief aid which it cannot control. Heng
Samrin’s Vietnamese backers refuse even to
recognize the existence of a problem. Mean-
while, guerrilla groups under Pol Pot show
little concern for anything other than the
war against the hated Vietnamese; those who
cannot contribute either fall by the wayside
or straggle into the Thai refugee camps-

Steadily, what remains of the Cambodian
nation is being ground into non-existence.
Before Cambodia was pushed into the Viet-
namese conflict, the population exceeded 7
million. Years of air-bombing, revolution and
then the harsh reprisals and mismanagement
of Pol Pot's brief sway in Phnom Penh are
believed to have halved that figure. Inevita-
bly, each wave of dry-season fighting will
shrink the number even further while cast-
ing up still another wave of refugees. The
end is nowhere in sight.

It is not inconceivable that, in time, the
Cambodians could be reduced to a tribal
vestige. These descendents of the ancient
Khmer civilization whose greatness is sug-
gested in the ruins of Angkor Wat could be-
come a kind of endangered human species
seeking survival in remote and inaccessible
jungles.

The rice terraces, rubber lands and other
lush resources of Cambodia which already
have been largely abandoned will be left to
exploitation by more powerful neighbors. The
pattern is not an unfamiliar one in South-
east Asia. Remnants of other once powerful
peoples are to be found throughout the high-
lands and jungles of the region.

Cambodia, in fact, is already well on the
way to dissolution as a political entity. Un-
less the process is checked, the final col-
lapse will give rise to problems even more
serious than that of the refugees.

An independent, viable and neutral Cam.
bodia could be a stabilizing factor in the
rivalry between China and Vietnam, Cam:
bodia’s disappearance would destroy the re-
gional balance, affecting such states as Thai-
land. The region could become a breeding
ground for war for generations.

What hope remains of forestalling this se-
quence depends in great part on the prompt
unification of the Cambodian factions in an
effort to save the nation. Only as a unified
force will the Cambodians stand a chance of
reasserting their battered national identity.

The essential symbol of that unity is not
to be found in the present regime in Phnom
Penh. The fact that the regime has an abject
dependency on Vietnamese forces denies it
acceptability among Cambodians at home
or in exile.

Nor does Pol Pot represent the symbol of
unity. His claim to national leadership has
been severely compromised by the cruelty
and the ineptitude of his interregnum in
Phnom Penh.

That leaves Prince Norodom Sihanouk. His
nationalism remains unquestioned, His claim
to the loyalty of the Cambodian people is
supported by his past contributions. It was
Prince Sihanouk who led the country in
winning independence from France, in build-
ing a brief “golden age” of well-being in
Cambodia. It was his diplomacy which fended
off the Indochina War for years and won
respect for Cambodia’s integrity from most
of the governments of the world. Most sig-
nificantly, Prince Sihanouk has held the con-
fidence of both Peking and wartime Hanoi.

Alone among the Cambodians, Prince
Sthanouk could serve as a rallying point for
the surviving Khmers of all political persua-
sions. Indeed, he is working with the meager
resources that are available to him to assume
that role.

His efforts will be of little avail, however,
unless there is a readiness by the interested
powers, including the United States, to ac-
cept him as a key to the rescue of Cambodia
and, hence, a significant element in main-
taining stability in Southeast Asia. There is
reason to believe China is now prepared to
see Prince Sihanouk in that light. What of
Vietnam and other nations?

It remains to be seen whether the world-
wide humanitarian impulse to save the lives
of Cambodian refugees can be matched by
the diplomatic wisdom capable of saving the
Cambodian nation and peace in Southeast
Asia.@

GAO STUDY OF LIBBY
REREGULATING DAM

@ Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, in a
statement on this floor several days ago,
I used the Tellico Dam issue to high-
light the need for an impartial high-
level review board which would analyze
ee benefits and costs of all water proj-
ects.

I used the occasion to describe my
difficulties in getting the Corps of Engi-
neers to recompute the benefit-cost
ratio of a proposed Libby reregulating
dam in northwestern Montana. The re-
regulating dam, which would be located
10 miles downstream from the main
Libby Dam, would cost an estimated
$300-million but would not significantly
increase the output of power from the
entire complex. It would simply shift the
complex from a baseload to a peaking
power facility.

Being unable to get the Corps to re-
compute the benefit-cost ratio using
more recent economic data—Libby Dam
was authorized in 1950 and construction
did not begin until 1966—I turned to the
General Accounting Office for help.
The General Accounting Office has
just released the results of its study, and
I wish to share them with my colleagues.

The GAO concludes that the reregu-
lating dam will yield 58 cents in benefits
for each $1 expended, for a benefit cost
ratio of 0.58 to 1. This is contrasted with
the long-standing claim by the Corps
of Engineers that the benefit-cost ratio
is actually 2.3 to 1.

The wide discrepancy between 0.58
and 2.3 is striking and underscores my
call for an independent review of all
water projects, using a common method-
ology and a common discount rate.
Hydropower has been a marvelous source
of energy in this country, and I am con-
fident will continue to be an important
mainstay of our energy program. How-
ever, the day should be over when we
automatically assume that the benefits
of any dam outweigh its liabilities.

The GAO effort has stimulated the
Corps to undertake its own recomputa-
tion. Results of the Corps study are due
early in 1980. I look forward to the Corps
report. In the meantime, I will oppose
any legislative effort to move the rereg-
ulating project forward.

Mr. President, I ask that the pertinent
sections of the General Accounting Of-
fice study be printed in the RecorpD.

The study follows:

U.S. SENATE,
Washington, D.C., June 20, 1979.
Mr. ELMER B. STAaTs,
Comptroller General,
General Accounting Office,
Washington, D.C.

Dear EvmeR: First, let me thank you for
GAO's work to date concerning my February
23, 1979 request and subsequent correspond-
ence about the proposed Libby, Montana,
reregulating dam.

As stated in my May 10, 1979 letter to you
on this subject, I had in April asked the
Army Corps of Engineers to re-examine its
economic justification for the proposed dam.

‘The Corps has declined such a re-examina-
tion, and as I emphasized in my recent meet-
ing with J. Dexter Peach, Mark Heatwole and
John Brown of your staff, Congress must soon
decide whether to proceed or halt this con-
troversial $250 million project.

Nevertheless, controversy and charges con-
tinue to grow and surround the economic
justification for the Libby project. It is dif-
ficult for a layman to make an informed
judgment from the storm of charges and
counter-charges.

Your previous work in looking at the peak-
ing power in the Pacific Northwest needs has
been most helpful, but I continue to believe
a clear and informed picture of the Libby
economic justification is necessary. I there-
fore, request the General Accounting Office
to:
1. Review and provide observations on the
assumptions used in the Corps’ benefit-cost
study to add four generating units at Libby
main dam and construct a reregulating dam
with generation facilities;

2. Review the methodology to sze it water
resource principles and standards were fol-
lowed in preparing the benefit-cost study;

3. Review and analyze the values assigned
as benefits to peaking power;

4. Assess the impact on power benefits if
the maximum allowable flow fluctuations
downstream are scaled back to a lower level;
and

5. Identify options (including non-gener-
ating) which could be used in the Pacific
Northwest for meeting or decreasing peaking
demands, in lieu of the Libby project.

OL eee ee, ee” FL ee |
In identifying these options, outline the
advantages and disadvantages of each and,
if possible, provide available information on
the economic aspects of each and what you
think it would take to bring about these
alternatives.

Because of pending legislation bearing on
the Libby situation, it is important that this
evaluation be done immediately. I ask your
staff to contact my office periodically to
provide me with updated information on the
status of the review. I further request that
your study be finished and provide me a
briefing on your findings by October 15, 1979,
to be followed by a report on your study and
findings by November 15, 1979. My office
stands ready to assist you in any way and
further contacts should be with Mike Shields
of my staff at 224-2651.

As confirmed in discussion between your
staff and mine, I will assume that the final
report will be a formal “blue cover’ report
with the customary thirty-day hold for my
review.

With best personal wishes, I am

Sincerely,
Max Baucus.

COMPTROLLER GENERAL'S REPORT
MONTANA'S LIBBY DAM PROJECT: MORE STUDY

NEEDED BEFORE ADDING GENERATORS AND A

REREGULATING DAM

On June 20, 1979, Senator Max Baucus of
Montana asked GAO to answer several ques-
tions regarding the proposed Libby addi-
tional generating units and reregulating dam
project in Montana, including an analysis of
the economic justification. In response to
Senator Baucus’ request and concerns ex-
pressed by another member of the Montana
delegation, GAO addresses three main issues
in this report:

Did the Corps of Engineers use valid as-
sumptions and appropriate methods in pre-
paring the benefit-cost study for the pro-
posed project?

Are there alternatives in lieu of the Libby
project that could be used in the Pacific
Northwest to meet or to better manage fu-
ture peaking demands?

What would be the impact on power bene-
fits if the maximum river fluctuation limits
downstream were reduced to a lower level?

‘The existing Libby Dam on the Kootenai
River in northwestern Montana was com-
pleted in 1973, and the Corps recently began
to modify the dam to increase its generating
capacity. This increased generating capabil-
ity at the main dam would produce virtually
no more electricity than the existing facility,
but would help meet high-demand daytime
needs.

The proposed modifications, which would
cost an estimated $300 million, include in-
stalling four more generators and construct-
ing a reregulating dam 10 miles downstream
from the main dam. Because a peaking hydro-
electric facility releases water in surges, &
secondary dam is necessary to reduce water
fluctuations downstream and to minimize
environmental and safety hazards. The Corps
has also proposed to the Congress additional
generators for the reregulating dam. These
generators would provide additional power
at the site. but they have not been author-
ized for construction.

For several years the project has been the
subject of controversy as to its proposed op-
erating features and its need. Based on its
studies, the Corps contends that the addi-
tional generating capacity at Libby is neces-
sary to help meet the peak power needs in
the Pacific Northwest. Others, however—in-
cluding environmentalists, and State of Mon-
tana officials—have questioned whether the
Congress has authorized the Corps to modify
the dam and/or whether the project is eco-
nomically and environmentally sound.
The Corps has overstated project Vene pis

In making its benefit-cost analysis of the
proposed Libby project, the Corps used meth-
ods which no longer apply to the Pacific
Northwest where power sources have moved
away from mainly a hydroelectric system to
@ mix of hydropower and thermal plants.

Corps officials have acknowledged that cal-
culating benefit-costs by past methods over-
estimates benefits for projects where peak
generating capacity is added to existing hy-
dropower plants and used very little. Be-
tween 1975 and 1978, the Corps analyzed
several alternative calculation methods and,
by May 1978, reported that a better method—
called the production cost model—had been
developed for some types of projects. The
Corps tested the method on other proposed
additional units projects but not on the
proposed Libby project

At GAO's request, the Corps applied the
production cost model concepts to the pro-
posed Libby project, recognizing that cer-
tain data would not be precise. The result
was an estimated benefit-cost ratio of 1.02
‘o 1, significantly lower than the 2.3 to 1
atio given to the Congress in February 1979.

GAO examined the 1.02 to 1 ratio and found
several questionable values and assumptions
which, if revised, reduce the ratio to about
0.6 to 1. GAO’s adjustments to the benefit-
cost ratio refiect changes in the discount rate,
power values, and project costs used by the
Corps.

The Corps plans to undertake a new bene-
fit-cost study for the project applying the
production cost model and using more precise
data, It hopes to complete the analysis and
submit the results to the Congress by early
1980.

Reduced river fluctuation limits could impatr
operating flexibility of the main dam and
decrease power benefits at the regulating
dam
State of Montana officials and others sug-

gested at one time that fluctuation limits be

reduced for safety reasons and to lessen the
effects on the river environment, particularly
the fish population. The fluctuation limits
below the reregulating dam, if it becomes op-
erational, will be the same as the limits for
the existing facility—1 foot an hour, but not
more than 4 feet a day, during the summer,
and 2 feet an hour, but not more than 6 feet

@ day, during the winter.

The Corps has opposed reducing the river
fluctuation limits, contending that major re-
ductions would reduce annual power benefits
substantially. A recent Corps study showed
that while scaling back the daily fluctuation
limits by about one-half would have no
measurable impact on power benefits from
the main dam, up to $3.5 million in power
benefits would be lost from the reregulating
dam generators, if they are installed. The
study showed that lower fluctuation lMmits
could also reduce the Corps’ flexibility to
bring Libby Dam online quickly during rapid
increases in demand or power emergencies.

GAO found no comprehensive studies or
other evidence which show the need to reduce
fluctuation limits, particularly since the
fishery below Libby Dam its apparently
fiourishing.

Five potential alternatives to the proposed
Libby project are available in the Pacific
Northwest

GAO identified five potentially viable al-
ternatives to the proposed Libby project, both
to increase generating resources and to better
manage future peak demand. Most alterna-
tives were not analyzed thoroughly by the
Corps before it started work on the project.

The alternatives are:

Combustion turbines, which are similar to
aircraft engines except that they drive elec-
tric generators.
VOBSEMEPBUON, WICK USleSs Seb AUR fn
dustrial operations to power electrical gen-
erators.

Power exchanges using the intertie, which
stretches from California to Washington and
has an existing capacity of 4,100 MW.

Load management, which can smooth out
the peaks in electricity use by means of re-
mote control switches, thermostats and cir-
cult breakers in homes and businesses.

Peak pricing options, which involve in-
creasing power prices during periods of heav-
fest demand.

Recommendations

The Corps has not shown that the proposed
Libby project is economically justified or
that this project is the best available option
for meeting Pacific Northwest peaking needs.
Because of this, GAO believes that the pro-
posed Libby Dam project should proceed no
further until the Congress has more informa-
tion on it. Accordingly, GAO recommends
that the Secretary of the Army direct the
Chief of Engineers to recompute and to re-
port to the Congress the costs and benefits
for the project, using the production cost
model approach, and taking care to select
the authorized discount rate, valid power
values, and all applicable costs.

As part of this study and included as part
of the Corps’ report, the Secretary of Energy
should direct the Administrator of the
Bonneville Power Administration to conduct
@ comprehensive analysis of regional peaking
alternatives, including the proposed project.
This study should measure the incremental
effect of each alternative on the combined
hydro-thermal system, and should be the
basis for prioritizing alternatives for
implementation.

In the longer term, the Bonneville Power
Administration should routinely prepare and
update the analysis of peaking alternatives.
If options such as conservation, load man-
agement, and peak pricing prove to be eco-
nomically feasible, the Bonneville Power Ad-
ministration should develop and implement
equitable methods to encourage utilities and
electricity customers to adopt them.

As agreed with Senator Baucus, we did not
obtain written agency comments. The mat-
ters presented in the report, however, were
discussed with appropriate officials who
agreed that further studies are warranted.

Lissy Dam Stupy
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION

In 1950 the Congress authorized the Corps
of Engineers to construct the Libby Dam
on the Kootenai! River in northwestern Mon-
tana. Completed in 1973 by the Seattle Dis-
trict, Corps of Engineers, the dam began
producing electricity 2 years later to meet the
energy demands of the Pacific Northwest. As
@ second phase of the project, the Corps has
now begun major modifications to double the
dam's generating capacity and to change its
operating mode. This increased generating
capacity will cost an estimated $300 million
and will involve increasing the number of
generators ftom four to eight and construct-
ing a reregulating dam 10 miles downstream
from the main dam. The reregulating dam is
necessary because the Corps plans to in-
crease the peaking capability of the project.
The Corps has also proposed as a separate
project, that generators be installed in the
reregulating dam. These generators would
vrovide additional power at the site, but
they have not been authorized for construc-
tion.

Unlike a baseload facility which is designed
to produce a steady continuous flow of elec-
tricity by releasing water over a long period,
& peaking facility releases more water in
surges over a shorter time to produce elec-
>
4

os? So,

RORe"Reaostr Naeerset error erne

rpre ma

TtRooMi abi AORa2enenathi 1 BG

MEACILY 10F DegNn-Gemand peak periods. in the
case of Libby, the installation of four more
generators would produce virtually no more
electricity than the existing facility but
would help meet daytime peak power needs.

Because a peaking plant releases water in
surges, a secondary dam a short way down-
stream becomes necessary to reduce the water
fluctuations and to minimize environmental
and safety hazards. For example, if eight
units are installed in Libby Dam and the
plant is used for peaking, flows below the
main dam could go from zero to 45,000 cubic
feet per second in minutes with water level
fluctuations up to 18 feet. Therefore, a rere-
gulating dam would be mandatory to reduce
the surges and release water downstream at a
steadier rate.

For several years the project has been the
subject of controversy as to its proposed op-
erating features and its need. Based on its
studies, the Corps contends that the addi-
tional generating capacity is necessary to
help meet the forecasted peak power needs in
the 1980s, 1990s, and beyond. Others, how-
ever—including environmentalists, State of
Montana officials, and the courts—have ques-
tioned whether the Congress has authorized
the Corps to modify the dam and/or whether
the project is economically and environ-
mentally sound. In early 1979, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that
the Congress had not authorized the Corps
to build the reregulating dam at Libby and
enjoined the Corps from further work on
the project. The court allowed work to con-
tinue, however, on the four additional gen-
erating units. As of October 1, 1979, the Corps
had spent about $26 million on the genera-
tors which cannot be used effectively unless
the reregulating dam is built.

Because of this controversy and pending
congressional legislation on the Libby proJ-
ect, Senator Max Baucus of Montana re-
quested that we:

1, Review and provide observations on the
assumptions used in the Corps benefit-cost
study to add four generating units at the
Libby main dam and to construct a reregu-
lating dam with generating facilities.

2. Review the methodology to see if the
Corps followed water resource principles and
standards in preparing the benefit-cost study.

3. Review and analyze the values assigned
as benefits to peaking power.

4. Assess the impact on power benefits if
the Corps’ maximum allowable flow fluctua-
tions downstream are scaled back to a lower
level.

5. Identify options other than the Libby
project (including nongenerating options)
which could be used in the Pacific North-
west for meeting or decreasing peaking de-
mands. In identifying these options, Senator
Baucus asked us to outline the advantages
and disadvantages of each and, if possible,
to provide available information on the eco-
nomic aspects of each and how these alterna-
tives could be brought about.

Scope of review

During this study we reviewed records, in-
structions, guidelines, and other data con-
cerning the economic justification for and
the alternatives to the Libby additional units
and reregulating dam (LAURD). We worked
at the Corps’ Seattle District and the North
Pacific Division in Portland, Oregon; the Bon-
neville Power Administration (BPA), Port-
land, Oregon: and the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission in San Francisco. Cali-
fornia.

To better understand the questions raised
about the project and their potential impacts,
we visited the Libby damsite, toured the
area around the proposed reregulating dam,
talked with Corps officials operating the dam,
and met with representatives of the Libby
Rod and Gun Club. Also, we talked with of-
ficials from the Montana State Departments
of Fish and Game and Natural Resources in
Helena about the LAURD project.

Two consultants—George W. Hinman and
Walter R. Butcher, highly knowledgeable
about energy technologies—assisted us in
evaluating alternatives to constructing the
LAURD project. In addition, we contacted
representatives from Puget Sound Power and
Light, Portland General Electric, Seattle City
Light, and Southern California Edison com-
panies for data used during our analysis of
the LAURD benefit-cost ratio and alterna-
tives.

Although the Corps has proposed adding
generators to the reregulating dam, we. did
not include them in our evaluation of the
Corps’ benefit-cost study for LAURD because
the Congress has not authorized their
construction.

CHAPTER 2: BENEFIT-COST ANALYSIS

The Corps has not shown the proposed
LAURD project to be economically justified.
The Corps calculated a benefit-cost ratio
for LAURD of 2.3 to 1, using a method which
did not properly evaluate either (1) Libby
Dam’s present use in meeting high daytime
peak power needs and (2) the complexities
of today’s Pacific Northwest power system.
Recent Corps recalculations using a better
method show a benefit-cost ratio for LAURD
of about 1.02 to 1. However, our adjustments
to the discount rate and certain costs re-
duce this ratio to about 0.6 to 1. The Corps
has begun a new LAURD benefit-cost study
to submit to the Congress in early 1980.

Benefit-cost analyses for hydropower

The benefit-cost analysis is one of the
major tools the Congress uses when making
decisions on proposed Federal water proj-
ects. This analysis compares a proposed proj-
ect'’s expected benefits with its expected
costs. The analysis is used to evaluate a
project's economic justification after a need
for the facility has been established. Projects
are seldom authorized unless their average
estimated benefits exceed their average esti-
mated costs annually.

Criteria for benefit-cost analyses are de-
veloped by the Water Resources Council and
implemented in Corps regulations. To
achieve uniform analyses, the Water Re-
sources Council establishes policies and
pene for water resource project evalua-
tion.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commis-
sion (FERC) also provides values and guide-
lines for evaluating power benefits, includ-
ing estimates of the costs of such alterna-
tive projects as nuclear and combustion
turbine plants.

Corps Evaluation Method for LAURD

lectrical power is the only benefit that
the Corps has claimed for LAURD. The Corps
determined power benefits for the additional
units by computing the value of the proposed
eight units (four existing plus four addi-
tional) designed to meet peakloads and
then by subtracting the value of the four
units now in service.

To assign power values, the Corps used
the cost of presumed equivalent alternatives
Projects. Specifically, the Corps compared
the planned eight-unit peaking system to a
combined-cycle' thermal plant and com-
pared the existing four-unit facility to a
nuclear plant. Thus, the Corps computed
the power benefits for LAURD by subtract-
ing the fixed and variable costs of a base-
load nuclear plant from the fixed and yari-
able costs of a combined-cycle thermal plant.
The following illustrates this method.

‘A combined-cycle plant produces elec-
tricity from turbine engines connected to
generators and uses heat recovered from
those turbines to run one or two more gen-
erators. This design produces additional elec-
tricity without using additional fuel.
Power benefits attributable to LAURD—
Value of planned 8-units (4 existing plus
4 additional) used for peaking—Value of
existing 4 units.

And thus:

Power benefits attributable to LAURD=
Value of combined-cycle thermal plant
operated like the planned 8 peaking units—
Value of nuclear plant operated as a base-
load plant.

Better method is available

‘The Corps method evaluated the present
Libby Dam as if it were operating as a base-
load plant which provides a steady con-
tinuous amount of power. This technique
overlooked the fact that Libby is now pro-
viding considerably more power during the
daytime than it is at night. The Corps has
developed a better method for calculating
benefits for added units projects. The better
method still relies on measuring project
benefits by selecting the least costly alter-
native project, but also considers the effects
on system energy costs brought about by
alternate projects.

The present Libby Dam operates as a
baseload plant only part of the time; thus,
it is not comparable to a nuclear plant.
During the last 3 years, Libby has been
used to create an average of 133 more mega-
watts during days than nights, excluding
spring fill periods. The LAURD benefit-cost
analysis should reflect Libby’s present use
in meeting daytime power needs much of
the year and should measure benefits as the
incremental value LAURD would provide.

In addition, the Corps method of com-
puting power benefits is no longer applicable,
as the Pacific Northwest power sources have
become diverse. The past method applied
when @ baseload thermal plant was the
alternative to a baseload hydropower plant
in an all-hydropower system. The measure
of benefit was the cost of building and
operating a baseload thermal plant However,
@ mix of hydropower plants (baseload and
peaking), baseload thermal plants, and com-
bustion turbine peaking plants now furnish
power to the Pacific Northwest. Past methods
of calculating benefits and costs no longer
apply, because it is increasingly difficult to
evaluate the least costly alternative energy
source, particularly for additions to existing
hydropower plants which will be used very
little.

Corps officials acknowledge that past bene-
fit-cost calculation methods significantly
overestimated benefits from additions to
existing peoieots. In fact the Corps rec-

these calculation weaknesses as
early as 1975, when officials began to evalu-
ate ways of improving benefit-cost calcula-
tions for additional units projects. Between
1975 and 1978 the Corps analyzed several
alternative calculation methods and, by May
1978, reported that it had developed a better
method which was operational, at least for
certain kinds of projects.

The Corps can use its newer method—
called the “production cost model”—to
estimate system energy costs for hydropower
and alternative projects as they woitld
actually operate in the Pacific Northwest
power system. The model identifies and
values the most economical alternatives to
® proposed project by calculating power sys-
tem operating costs under alternative power
demand situations, Alternative plants and
combinations of plants can be tested under
future operating conditions, and the result-
ing production costs, together with capital
costs, can be used to select the most eco-
nomical combination of resources to meet
future loads.

In May 1979, the Water Resources Council
proposed that system energy costs be taken
into account (such as done by the Corps’
production cost model) when computing the
value of hydropower energy. According to
Corps officials, this approach has been used
FO SRS Se a SDV) Fae:

I ee ee ew

by the Tennessee Valley Authority and FERC
for many years, is now widely used, and is
the approach now advocated by the Bureau
of Reclamation and the Water Resources
Council.

The Corps tested the method on other pro-
posed additional units projects (at McNary
and Chief Joseph Dams), but did not apply
it to recalculate LAURD benefits and costs.

At our request the Corps estimated the
LAURD benefit-cost ratio, using production
cost model concepts and applying judgment
to the results of past applications. A benefit-
cost ratio of 1.02 to 1* resulted—significantly
lower than the 2.3 to 1 ratio the Corps gave
to the Congress in February 1979. Corps of-
ficials were uncertain about the validity of
the model results, stating that they had
developed the model for projects which
would be used more than 40 percent of the
time. LAURD would be used less than 20
percent of the time. Purther refinement of
the model by the Corps may result in a dif-
ferent benefit-cost ratio.

GAO adjustments to Corps production cost
model calculations

Our examination of the 1.02 to 1 ratio
developed by the production cost model dis-
closed several questionable values and as-
sumptions which, if revised, reduce the ratio
to about 0.6 to 1, as shown in the following
table:

GAO analysis of Corps benefit-cost ratio
calculated by production cost model
Benefit-cost
ratio
Corps calculated benefit-cost ratio
from production cost model_... 1.02 to 1
GAO adjustments:
Change in discount rate from 3.8

percent used by Corps to 7.125

percent established by Water

Resources Council_----.------- 0.69 to 1

Decrease in combustion turbine
construction cost from $21.56 a
kilowatt-year national value to
$16.67 a kilowatt-year regional
OVETABE oe lne ce snce nn nwncne 0.61 to 1

Increase of $757,476 in estimated
annual project costs for highway
improvements and cultural re-
sources preservation, and addi-
tional interest during construc-
tion -.4.--------------=-s552e 0.59 tol

Disbenefits of $333,300 annually
due to losses in wildlife lands,
due-use recreation and fishing
opportunities in the 10-mile
stretch between the two dams._ 0.58 to 1
Explanation of GAO Adjustments

Our adjustments to the benefit-cost ratio
for LAURD which the Corps developed from
the production cost model reflect changes in
the discount rate, combustion turbine plant
construction costs, and the inclusion of cer-
tain project costs:

Discount rate. The Corps used a 3.8-per-
cent discount rate in determining present
value of future energy costs. This rate is sig-
nificantly lower than that prescribed by the
Water Resources Council. Corps officials be-
lieved the lower rate would provide an infla-
tion-free analysis, and they used it to avoid
reducing the impacts intended from the
application of an escalation factor to reflect
expected real cost growth in future fuel costs.
For the interest rate, however, the Corps
used the 7.125-percent rate established by
the Water Resources Council.

2? This ratio was based on fuel costs exceed-
ing average inflation by 2 percent a year for
30 years. The Corps also developed a 1.17 to
1 ratio using a 3-percent fuel cost escala-
tion rate, Our adjustments reduce the 1.17
to 1 ratio to about 0.63 to 1.
eee ee ee ee ee ee

both the discount and interest rates will be

the current federally prescribed rate. Water

Resources Council guidelines do not allow

adjusting the discount rate. Economists and

officials of other agencies told us that a 2-

or 3-percent fuel-cost escalation factor and a

7.125-percent discount rate were reasonable.

Using a 7.125-percent discount rate lowers

the benefit-cost ratio to about 0.7 to 1.
Combustion turbine construction costs.

The Corps production cost model identified
combustion turbines as the least costly alter-
native to LAURD. A $21.56 a kilowatt-year
construction cost based on FERC data was
used as a measure of the dependable ca-
pacity. We obtained the costs that regional
utilities had estimated for planned combus-
tion turbine plants, compared them to an in-
service plant (combined-cycle without heat
recovery), and developed a $16.67 a kilowatt-
year average cost.

LAURD construction costs. The Corps ex-
cluded two types of costs from the benefit-
cost ratio—highway improvements and cul-
tural resources preservation. Corps regula-
tions allow these costs to be excluded because
they do not directly benefit the project. But
these costs, totaling about $8.8 million,
should be recognized and included in the
analysis because they are unayoidable and
necessary expenses brought about by the
project.

Also, the Corps planned for LAURD to be
completed and operating by 1984. However,
Corps officials told us that the court injunc-
tion and project authorization process would
delay project completion until at least 1986—
possibly until 1990—if the Congress decides
to build. The minimum 2-year delay would
increase interest during construction on the
$26 million already spent as of fiscal year
1979 by about $1,852,500.

Total estimated project costs for highway
improvements and cultural resources pres-
ervation, and addition! interest during con-
ee are $10.7 million, or $757,476 annu-

iy.

Wildlife and recreation losses. The Corps
recognized that wildlife lands, day-use rec-
reation, and fishing opportunities would be
lost in the 10-mile stretch between the Libby
main dam and the proposed reregulating
dam. While the Corps calculated annual wild-
life and recreation losses of $333,300, they
did not include these losses when calculating
the LAURD benefit-cost ratio.

Factor Not Evaluated

The 1.02 to 1 benefit-cost ratio did not re-
flect the full effects of the 1964 United States-
Canada Columbia River Treaty, under which
Canada may divert water from the Kootenal
River in three stages at a point in Canada
50 miles from the border. (See map on p. 11.)
The treaty allows the first diversion after
1984, with the second and third allowed after
2024 and 2044, respectively. The Corps bene-
fit-cost ratio included only the projected ef-
fects of the first diversion. Additional water
diversions would reduce the average stream-
flow and reduce the average energy potential
of Libby Dam.

Corps will develop new benefit-cost ratio
Corps officials said that they plan to recal-

culate the benefit-cost ratio for LAURD using

the production cost model. In so doing, they
plan to use better data and eliminate the
need for judgment estimates. The officials
told us they hope to provide the results of
the recalculation to the Congress in early

1980. They attributed the planned LAURD

recalculation to congressional interest and

our review.

CHAPTER 3: EFFECT OF REDUCED FLUCTUATION
CRITERIA ON POWER BENEFITS AND OPERATING
FLEXIBILITY OF LIBBY DAM
‘The Corps designed the LAURD project to

permit the main dam, with eight units, and
jl —- 5. TP KAA AS BD ted Sod, S405 EY! es.
sal fio d fluctuation limits as the pres-
ent facility with four generating units. Water
fluctuation limits below the reregulating dam
would continue at a maximum of 1 foot an
hour, but not more than 4 feet a day, during
May through September, and a maximum of
2 feet an hour, but not more than 6 feet a
day, during October through April. The mini-
mum allowable water discharge would also
be the same, or 2,000 cubic feet a second
(cfs.).

State of Montana officials and others have
suggested lowering these fluctuation levels
and/or increasing flows further to reduce ef-
fects on the environment and for safety rea-
sons. The Corps has opposed such moves, con-
tending that major reductions would signif-
icantly reduce annual power benefits. A Corps
study completed during our review showed
that there would be a substantial reduction
in benefits for peak power at the reregulating
dam if the maximum allowable flow fluctua-
tions were scaled back by about one-half the
current levels. A reduction in fluctuation
limits could also limit somewhat the Corps’
flexibility to bring Libby Dam online quickly
during rapid increases in demand or power
emergencies.

Background and status
History

Since the early 1960s considerable discus-
sion has occurred regarding flow fluctuations
and the minimum discharge downstream
from Libby Dam. In 1962 the Corps proposed
minimum flow criterion of 2,000 ¢.f.s. and a
maximum fluctuation criterion of 2 feet an
hour in the winter and 1 foot an hour in the
summer. The Corps proposed these levels
after consulting with BPA, the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service (FWS), Montana State De-
partment of Fish and Game (MDF&G), and
others. However, these agencies did not en-
dorse the Corps’ criteria at that time.

In 1965 the FWS, concurring with MDF&G,
recommended discharge rates from the dam
of not less than 2,500 cfs, and fluctuation
rates of no more than 1 foot an hour. Accord-
ing to the FWS, these criteria would mini-
mize detrimental effects on fish and aquatic
life and reduce hazards to anglers. The Corps
retained its hourly fluctuation limits, but
later revised its criteria to limit maximum
daily fluctuations to 4 feet during May
through September and 6 feet during October
through April,

In 1975 FWS and MDF&G concluded that
a minimum discharge limit of 2,000 c.fs.
would be adequate, but that a minimum
flow of at least 3,000 c.f.s. would be prefer-
able. After further study, the FWS recom-
mended in 1977 that levels of at least 4,000
¢.f.s. would be better during April through
June and October through November to en-
hance spawning in the river. Also, FWS told
the Corps that to enhance spawning it would
be preferable to operate the reregulation
dam so that some fluctuation in the river
occurred on a daily basis. In response to
FWS concerns, the Corps stated that mini-
mum flows from the reregulating dam will
be 4,000 c.f.s. whenever possible, and that
@ 2,000-c.f.s. flow would occur infrequently.

Prompted by former Montana Senator
Paul Hatfield’s 1978 inquiry to the Corps
concerning the flow and fluctuation rates at
Libby Dam, the MDF&G again revised its
position on the Corps criteria. In Septem-
ber 1978, MDF&G recommended that the
Corps (1) reduce fluctuations to a maximum
of 3 feet each day and 14 foot an hour year
round, (2) maintain a minimum flow of
4,000 cfs., and (3) maintain a steady flow
from 3 hours before sunset until dark and
@ steady flow on weekends during May
through October. These recommendations
were made to accommodate anglers and to
increase spawning.

The Corps responded to these recommen-
dations by repeating the reasons for its

fluctuation criteria, the q id
significantly reduce power benefits. The
Corps also said that it must have the flexi-
bility to (1) reduce the flow to 3,000 c.f.s.
for reservoir refill capability and (2) reduce
the flow to 2,000 c.f.s. during power emer-
gencies. The Corps does not expect these
emergencies to occur on the average more
than four times a year.
Current Status

In August 1979, the director of MDF&G
told us that MDF&G does not oppose the
Corps flow and fluctuation criteria for Libby
Dam if the Corps abides by the existing cri-
teria. He said that the fishery below Libby
Dam is fluorishing and MDF&G has no rea-
son to support reducing these criteria. Rep-
resentatives from the Libby Rod and Gun
Club, who have questioned the need for the
LAURD project, also agreed that the fishery
below the Libby Dam is good and that no
evidence exists to support the need to re-
duce the fluctuation criteria. The club op-
poses the project, however, because 10 more
miles of the river (behind the reregulating
dam) would be “lost to sports fishing.

On the other hand, a cognizant FWS offi-
cial from the Billings, Montana, area office
told us that FWS favors a minimum flow
level of 4,000 cfs. He said that further
studies should be made to determine suit-
able flow criteria for the protection of fish
and aquatic life in the river.

Effect of reduced criteria on powér benefits

The Corps has contended for some time
that any major reduction in fluctuation and
flow criteria at Libby Dam would significantly
affect power benefits for the project. In July
1978 the Corps told former Montana Senator
Paul Hatfield that, if the fluctuation Mmit
were reduced to 3 feet a day year round, the
benefits from three of the proposed generat-
ing units at the main dam would be lost at
an estimated annual cost of about $26 mil-
lion. A Corps October 1978 policy paper also
estimated that the capacity of three generat-
ing units would be lost. These losses were
based on engineering judgment, however,
rather than a detailed analysis.

In September 1979 the Corps completed a
more thorough analysis on the effect of re-
duced fluctuation levels on power benefits.
In this study the Corps used a minimum fiow
of 4,000 cfs. and a fluctuation limit of 1
foot an hour and 3 feet each 12-hour period
(6-foot limit a day) during the winter
months. We believe the study results are
also valid when the daily limit is about 3
feet, because only 3 feet of fluctuation was
actually needed in the study. Corps officials
agreed.

While the study focused on the effects of a
reduced criteria on the reregulating dam,
it concluded that by careful scheduling the
full capacity of the main dam can be made
available at least 90 percent of the time dur-
ing the critical winter months. As a result,
there would be little change in the measur-
able power benefits from the main dam, al-
though Corps officials contend that some
nonquantifiable benefit would be lost. If
generators are installed in the reregulating
dam as proposed, however, the power bene-
fits from the reregulating dam—which are
not included in the benefit-cost analysis—
would be reduced. The study showed that
these lower fluctuation levels would reduce
average generation about 3 megawatt-years
and would reduce dependable capacity about
40 megawatts for the reregulating dam. The
estimated loss in measurable benefits would
be between $2.6 and $3.5 million annually.

Because of the time required, we did not
analyze the effect on benefits of other fluctu-
ation criteria. In our opinion, however, more
restrictive criteria would generally cause the
benefits to decrease by reducing the depend-
able capacity of Libby Dam.
Effect of reduced criteria on flexibility

Federal officials have been concerned that
more restrictive fluctuation criteria would
reduce the flexibility to operate as planned,
but recent Corps and BPA simulation studies
show that the flexibility loss resulting from
@ 3-foot daily fluctuation limit would not be
@ problem most of the time. In their simula-
tions, both the Corps and BPA assumed that.
the reregulating pond would be almost full
on weekday evenings and full on Friday eve-
ning to maintain flows of 4,000 c.f.s. at night
and over the weekend when water from the
main dam was shut off. Using these operat-
ing assumptions, the flexibility of Libby Dam
to meet sudden power demands could be re-
duced somewhat if the demand were to occur
in the evening, particularly on Friday. Over-
all, however, the studies showed that the
project could operate efficiently to meet
scheduled daily peak loads.

Reducing criteria might also affect Libby
Dam's ability to provide operating reserves.
However, BPA and the Corps thought this
type of situation would not pose serious
problems, for they could make necessary ad-
justments in the way they operated the proj-
ect. Corps officials told us that because of the
longer lead-times necessary to increase or
reduce power significantly, they would have
to schedule Libby Dam’s operation well in
advance. They did not think that the reduced
criteria would keep them from generating
power as needed, only make it harder. The
official responsible for BPA's simulation study
said that the reduced criteria would occa-
sionally limit their flexibility in using the
project. He said, however, there is such a
critical need for units like Libby, which can
change their output rapidly, that BPA was
willing to forego some dependable capacity to
gain the flexibility that the reregulating dam
would provide. (See app. II.)

Conclusions

If fluctuation levels are scaled back by
about half the present levels, there will be no
measurable decrease in annual power bene-
fits related to the main dam, but there will be
some loss in its operational flexibility. Also,
if the proposed generators in the reregulating
dam are added, lower fluctuation limits
would substantially reduce the power bene-
fits related to the reregulating dam. There
are no comprehensive studies and other data,
however, which point to the need to reduce
fluctuation levels, given that the fishery be-
low Libby Dam is apparently flourishing.
Hence, we believe that before any decision
is made to reduce the fluctuation limits be-
yond established levels, a determination
should be made that any beneficial effects
on the river's environment outweigh “costs”
in terms of operational flexibility and de-
creases in power benefits.

CHAPTER 4; ALTERNATIVES TO MEET PACIFIC
NORTHWEST PEAKING NEEDS

Adding generators and a reregulating dam
at Libby is not the only means of meeting
peaking power shortfalls predicted for the
Pacific Northwest. Other alternatives exist
which involve either reducing peak power
demands or adding more peaking capability.
While construction programs offer the most
immediate and controllable actions for
meeting predicted needs, they should not be
undertaken until full consideration has been
given to other options.

Forecasts show peaking need

Justification for LAURD was predicated
on forecasts by the Pacific Northwest Util-
ities Conference Committee (PNUCC)—an
association of northwest utilities. The com-
mittee prepares the forecasts annually, by
compiling individual forecasts developed and
submitted by over 100 utilities. It compares
predicted load to resources for a 20-year
period, the difference between them being
the regional deficit or surplus. It is the only
ev rsa tr It Oetimert ory

Far Be ee ee Oe Re ee

peaking forecast which is made for the
region,

Although the forecasted peakloads have
been reduced considerably since the project
was begun, the 1979 forecast still shows a
deficit in resources available to meet the
predicted peakloads for most years. (See app.
III for the complete forecast.) In light of
this projected deficit, the Pacific Northwest
region faces many important and difficult
decisions in electricity management. But, as
we recently reported,’ no entity is respon-
sible for determining the best options to
meet regional energy needs, or for encour-
aging utilities and customers to adopt meas-
ures to better manage power use. BPA, which
markets half of the region’s electricity and
owns and operates 80 percent of the region’s

- high-voltage transmission lines, seems best

qualified to assume this leadership role.

We found that several alternatives exist,
which could reduce the forecasted peak defi-
cit by lowering the peak demand or by in-
creasing the region's peak generating
resources. However, BPA or the Corps did not
thoroughly analyze these alternatives before
starting work on LAURD.

We believe that BPA and the Corps should
make this analysis before LAURD is pro-
posed to the Congress as the best option.
Alternatives which increase peaking resources

The historical approach to meeting de-
mand in the Pacific Northwest has been to
increase the region’s generating capacity,
mostly by adding hydroelectric plants. The
LAURD project would continue this ap-
proach. However, other generating methods
might also help to supply peaking power.
We reviewed several conventional and non-
conventional electric generating methods to
see whether they could be alternatives to
LAURD. In our opinion, however, only three
options—combustion turbines/combined
cycle, cogeneration, and seasonal peak ex-
changes—could be potential alternatives to
LAURD.

Combustion Turbines/Combined-Cycle
Generating Plants

Combustion turbines are similar to aircraft
engines, except that they drive electric gen-
erators. Because they can be started quickly
and operated remotely, combustion turbines
are well suited for meeting peakloads and for
providing reserve power. In addition, they do
not need cooling water, can be located rela-
tively close to load centers or existing trans-
mission facilities, can respond rapidly to
changing loads, require a low initial captal
expenditure to construct, and are quick and
easy to install. For example, they require a
construction time of 12 to 18 months as op-
posed to 5 to 12 years for other types of ther-
mal plants.

Combustion turbines require a low initial
capital expenditure per kilowatt of generat-
ing capacity installed. On the other hand,
they are expensive to operate because they
are relatively inefficient, and they generally
burn expensive fossil fuels. Efficiency can be
improved to a level comparable with a mod-
ern oil-fired, steam-electric plant, however,
by routing the turbine’s exhaust heat to a
boiler in a steam-electric generating system.
This is called a combined cycle. Although a
combined-cycle plant offers much the same
benefits as a combustion turbine, it cannot
be used to serve short daily peaks because it
takes longer to heat the boiler and steam
turbine. Combined-cycle plants provide a
high degree of flexibility, for they can func-
tion either as a combustion turbine for inter-
mittent use or as a combined turbine/steam
system.

Combustion turbine and combined-cycle
plants have several disadvantages. First, both
use nonrenewable fossil fuels, a practice that

"Region at the Crossroads—The Pacific
Northwest Searches for New Sources of Elec-
trical Energy (EMD-78-76, Aug. 10, 1978).
may be contrary to national policy to reduce
the Nation's dependence on relatively scarce
fossil fuels. Second, both plants add to noise
and air pollution.

Costwise, these two generating systems may
be alternatives to LAURD under certain
operating conditions. For example, while
LAURD will cost about $300 million to build,
a similarly sized combustion turbine would
cost only about $70 million and a combined-
cycle plant would cost about $180 million.
However, plant operating costs, mainly for
fuel, are expensive compared to the operat-
ing costs for the LAURD project. Whether
combustion turbines or combined-cycle
Plants are less costly overall than LAURD
depends on how frequently they will have to
be used.

We believe the additional four units may
not generate more than about 12 percent of
their maximum potential power output. If so,
@ 350 MW combustion turbine generating
plant might be as economical as LAURD. In
making our analysis, we assumed that Libby
Dam would be used primarily during the
50 peak hours each week. Further, we as-
sumed that units 1-4 in the existing facility
would be used first, and that the additional
units (5-8) would be used only when the
existing units could not make use of all
available water during the peak period. The
Corps did not agree with this @pproach to
approximating the incremental use of the
additional units, but they had no better
information available.

One Pacific Northwest utility has recently
Proposed building combustion turbines be-
cause of delays in building the region’s nu-
clear plants. These and other possible future
units represent new resources, which are not
shown in the PNUCC forecasts.

Cogeneration

Cogeneration consists of using heat from
existing industrial operations to power elec-
trical generators. One type of cogeneration—
the steam topping cycle method—offers a
possible alternative for supplying peak power
in Meu of LAURD. In this concept, an indus-
trial plant generates steam at high pressure
and temperature. It first runs the steam
through a turbine to generate electricity and
then uses the emerging steam for industrial
processes or space heating.

Cogeneration can be viewed as a peak
power resource in two ways. First, an in-
dustrial plant with installed cogeneration
capacity could produce electricity for its own
use during peak hours, thereby displacing
some peak power normally supplied by a util-
ity. Second, a utility, through prior agree-
ment with an industrial plant, could use all
or part of the plant’s cogeneration capacity
to serve other customers during peak hours.

Many Pacific Northwest industries offer
potential for cogeneration, namely, the wood
products and the food processing industries.
The phase I report from a cogeneration study
underway by the Rocket Research Corpora-
tion for BPA shows that cogeneration po-
tential at industrial sites in the region is
1,430 MW, including about 400 MW which
currently exists. About 34 percent of this po-
tential would have to be achieved to equal
LAURD’s peak power production. The region-
al forecast includes little of this cogenera-
tion potential as a firm peak resource.

Since cogeneration relies on state-of-the-
art hardware, it requires no technological
development. In fact, more than 400 MW of
cogeneration already exists in the region, and
more can be expected as the costs of elec-
tricity and fuels rise. New units can be op-
erational within 5 years after arrangements
with the affected industries are made.

One principal obstacle to achieving the
regional cogeneration potential is the possi-
ble reluctance of industries to install cogen-
eration equipment. Incentives and/or sub-
sidies may be needed to make this alter-
the framework and the effect of these incen-
tives/subsidies in achieving the cogenera-
tion potential in the Pacific Northwest.
The Rocket Research Corporation is mak-
ing an economic analysis of cogeneration for
the Pacific Northwest for BPA, but results
are not available. Pending completion of the
Rocket Research study and formulation of
BPA policy on cogeneration, we believe that
the cogeneration alternative should be con-
sidered as a potentiail option to LAURD.
Power Exchanges Using the Intertie

The Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest
Intertie consists of three transmission lines
stretching over 800 miles from the Columbia
River to Southern California. They have a
present capacity of about 4,100 MW and can
be upgraded to about 4,500 MW. They are
used mainly to transfer Pacific Northwest
hydropower to California utilities. 5

‘The major contracts for transfers over the
intertie, however, will expire between 1982
and 1989. One potential use for the Intertie
as transmission capacity becomes available
is to take advantage of differences in peak
power demands between the Northwest and
Southwest. Currently, the Northwest's peak
loads occur in the winter, while the South-
west's peak loads occur in the summer. This
difference is known as seasonal diversity.
Therefore, the two regions could possibly
exchange power during each other’s peak
periods. Any excess Northwest capacity would
be available for use in the Southwest during
the summer, while the opposite would occur
in the winter.

Another possible use of the intertie is for
meeting reserve requirements (reserve pool-
ing). In this case, the regions would make no
schedule power transfers, but the excess
capacity in one region would be available to
supply the load in case of a forced outage
in the other region. Each region would bene-
fit through this arrangement by reducing
the need for new construction to meet their
reserve requirement. According to BPA offi-
clals, the potential exists for about 800 MW
of reserve pooling.

‘The principal advantage of a diversity
capacity exchange is its low cost. While the
LAURD project will cost about $300 million,
capacity exchange could be realized using
the existing intertle. The seasonal energy
exchange between regions would come from
either the excess capacity of existing peak-
ing plants or baseload thermal plants
planned or being constructed to meet energy
needs. Realizing only about 12 percent of the
present capacity of 4,100 MW for this type of
exchange would equal the increase in de-
pendable capacity that LAURD would pro-
vide.

While an official from the Callffornia En-
ergy Commission was enthusiastic about ar-
ranging a diversity exchange, BPA officials
were not as optimistic. According to one
BPA official, additional research is needed
before either the full potential for diversity
capacity exchanges or its effect on power
operations is known. He pointed out that
(1) the intertie ts less reliable than the
Northwest’s transmission system, (2) de-
lays in constructing thermal plants could
jeopardize or reduce the Northwest's ability
to meet its portion of the agreement, and
(3) reduced water levels in storage reservoirs
would have an adverse impact on recrea-
tional opportunities if substantial amounts
of hydropower are used for the exchange.
Further, BPA cannot count on reaching
agreement with California utilities on capac-
ity exchanges and does not want to jeopar-
dize meeting future peaking needs by delay-
ing construction of the Libby additions
hoping that agreements can be reached and
implemented by 1985.

ae ee ee ee eee.

‘n- oa aha eehe

ep eer eee
power

Peak power demands may be reduced in
several ways to avoid the need to construct
peaking facilities such as LAURD. In our
opinion, two of the methods—load manage-
ment and peak pricing—are potential alter-
natives to LAURD, and BPA and the Corps
should analyze them more thoroughly, Con-
servation would also reduce peak needs as
well as energy use. However, because con-
servation measures cannot be simply and
directly controlled, no accurate way exists to
predict energy savings from the conserva-
tion efforts or to schedule conservation to
come online by 1985 to replace the LAURD
project. Hence, while conservation should
be pursued to reduce both energy consump-
tion and long-term peaking needs, it should
not be compared directly to LAURD.

Load Management

Load management is the reduction of day-
time peak power demand through shifts in
certain power uses to nighttime periods.
Such shifts may be brought about by timed
or remote-controlled devices through which
utilities regulate energy use to respond pre-
cisely to demand. Examples of load manage-
ment devices are:

Equipment attached to commercial and
residential space heaters, appliances, or water
heaters which utilities can activate through
remote controls to interrupt use;

Clock-controlled switches which turn ap-
pliances on or off at certain times during the
day;

Interlocks which permit only a few appli-
ances to be used simultaneously; and

Storage systems which absorb heat at night
and release it during the day.

Load management has not been widely
practiced in the United States but is com-
monplace in many parts of the world. How-
ever, several programs by utilities in the mid-
west and eastern United States have been
successful. About 20 percent of the water
heaters in the United States are already on
off-peak controlled systems—but not in the
Pacific Northwest. For example, Detroit Edi-
son adopted a program in 1968 to control cus-
tomer’s water heaters. The system has re-
duced peak demand, averted the need for
new construction, reduced operating costs
(savings in 1977, for example, were about $1.7
million) and conserved energy. Further, a
study of 63 load management programs in
the United States found excellent customer
acceptance regardless of the use of financial
incentives.

With escalating fuel and plant construc-
tion costs, some experts believe that load
management will become a way of life within
the next few years. BPA 1s currently studying
the feasibility of load management in the
Northwest. If load management devices are
determined to be cost effective in the North-
west, they could significantly reduce the re-
quirement for installation of expensive peak
generating facilities with their attendant en-
vironmental problems. In fact, load manage-
ment might be one of the few environmen-
tally acceptable ways of meeting peaking
problems by the mid-1980s.

Pricing Options for Peak Power Demands

The customary pricing system combines
the cost of building generating facilities
necessary to meet the highest power demand
with all other costs to arrive at an average
price per kilowatt used. An alternative to
building more generating capacity is to
charge more for electricity during peak pe-
riods. The higher price during the peak pe-
riods should increase the demand during
those times, thus reducing the need to bulld
so much peaking capacity. Such a pricing
system would be more equitable, especially
to customers who do not have a high de-

en Hakone rKre ep meno tetwd weno ertecs:

tn eh en ee ee ee

—wHeeeeanmoneostwen

wmacedce Bereta aennrabommeaecrre
Pie een) SEI ae Oe, A

tries oere.. eG
mote efficiency because customers presently
use electricity during the peak demand pe-
Tiods as though it cost no more to produce
than at other times. As a result, they may
overlook or bypass peak-reducing opportu-
nities that are less expensive or involve a
Sacrifice that costs less than building more
peaking capacity.

The results of any peak pricing plans de-
pend on the customer's responsiveness to
higher prices during peak periods. Several
studies prepared by the Electric Power Re-
search Institute and the Department of En-
ergy have concluded that peakload pricing,
either seasonally or by time of day, Is likely
to even out seasonal and daily load patterns.
Space heating and water heating demands
are the most sensitive to changes in elec-
tricity rates, whereas others, such as light-
ing, may be less sensitive. Thus, higher prices
throughout the winter peak would probably
result in vigorous conservation efforts by
consumers followed by significant fuel sub-
stitution for space heating and water heating
after the customer has had sufficient time to
change to alternate heating equipment. We
reviewed three pricing mechanisms—long-
run incremental cost pricing, seasonal pric-
ing, and time-of-day pricing.

Long-Run Incremental Cost Pricing

Long-run incremental cost pricing (LRIC)
involves pricing each unit of electricity at
the average cost of the last units produced.
According to a 1975 analysis prepared during
the Northwest Energy Policy Project, the
LRIC of electricity in the Pacific Northwest
will be approximately 19 mills/kWh in 1990
(in 1975 prices) as compared to 4.7 mills/
kWh average costs. Pricing at LRIC would
reduce demand in 1990 by about 10,500 MW.
The cost attributable to reducing demand by .
only 350 MW—the dependable capacity_of
the Libby additions—would be about $30
million compared to the estimated $300 mil-
lion LAURD investment.

If LRIC increased the price of electricity
from 4.7 mills to 19 mills per kilowatt hour,
however, utilities would generate surplus
revenues. Although LRIC would be more
costly for the consumers, we assumed that
this surplus would be redistributed in some
manner and therefore would not be a net
cost to the public. Developing an equitable
procedure for distributing the surplus reve-
nue is one of the major disadvantages the
surplus revenue 1s one of the major disad-
vantages of LRIC pricing. Another problem
to overcome ts convincing the power supply
establishment and the customers of the long-
run gains that they could realize from LRIC
pricing.

Seasonal Pricing

Another form of peakload pricing ts sea-
sonal pricing, wherein electricity rates would
be higher during the peak season and rela-
tively lower during nonpeak months. A 1977
study by the National Economic Research
Associates as part of the Electric Utility Rate
Design Study addressed seasonal pricing for
the Northwest and suggested winter rates of
45 percent above summer rates for residen-
tial customers, and a 58-percent differential
for commercial and light industrial custom-
ers. These seasonal differences, combined
with cautious estimates of probable demand
response throughout the region, could result
in a demand decrease of over 4,500 MW in
the winter and an increase of 2,000 MW in
the summer within about 10 years after im-
plementation of seasonal differentials.

The principal advantage of seasonal pric-
ing is that this method could be implemented
without additional metering expenses. Cus-
tomers who substitute other fuels for elec-
tricity would incur some additional costs to
convert. In aggregate, these costs would be
partially offset by a net reduction in electri-
cal energy demand which would result in
fuel savings and avoidance of a capital in-
vestment for a thermal plant. All in all, the
costs of the seasonal pricing method would
be about one-fifth of LAURD's cost.

The most serious objection to seasonal
price differentials in rates would undoubtedly
come from customers, who would naturally
like to continue to have inexpensive power
for peak season uses. A more gradual price
adjustment could help ease the objections
without affecting the demand response. An-
other disadvantage could be the greater use
of natural gas, which is considered a scarce
fossil fuel over the long run.

Time-of-Day Pricing

‘Time-of-day pricing has been suggested
as @ means of reducing daily demands for
peak power. If rates were increased for use
during peak daytime periods and lowered
during off-peak night periods, customers
would probably shift some of their demand
to the cheaper period. But implementing
time-of-day pricing would require installa-
tion and maintenance of meters in each resi-
dence or business to monitor power use. Also,
the amount of response to this pricing
method cannot be accurately predicted. If
the response is very low, the metering costs
and customer costs of effecting a peak to off-
peak shift may be as high or higher than
the costs to install more peaking capacity.
This will probably be the case for some resi-
dential or small commercial customers, where
the potential for shifting loads to off-peak
hours would be quite small. However, large
commercial and industrial customers already
have the required metering and good poten-
tial for shifting consumption or simply cur-
tailing demand during the peak hours.

New Policies Or Actions Needed

Implementing any of these pricing options
depends on developing rate schedules that
are accepted as reasonable and are not unfair
to any of the diverse types of electricity cus-
tomers. Regional utilities and regulatory
bodies have already taken the first steps to
develop these rate schedules. In addition,
pricing experiments and studies are being
done at the National level. Further imple-
mentation will probably proceed gradually
without requiring any major legislative
change. An important exception requiring
major change would be any plan to deal with
surplus revenues by some form of taxation
and redistribution to the businesses and resi-
dents of the region.

CHAPTER 5: CONCLUTIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS

The Corps has not shown that the pro-
posed LAURD project is economically justi-
fied or that this project is the best available
alternative for meeting the Pacific Northwest
peaking needs. Because of this, we believe
that, before proceeding, (1) the Corps should
reassess the benefit-cost analysis for the
project and (2) BPA should thoroughly eval-
uate other alternatives to LAURD, particu-
larly peaking options identified in this re-
port.

In analyzing the benefits and costs of
LAURD, the Corps used methods which
overestimated project benefits. A better
method—called the production cost model—
has been developed. Using the concepts of
the model, the Corps recalculated a benefit-
cost ratio of about 1.02 to 1. Our adjustments
reduced this ratio below 1 to 1. The Corps
now plans to complete another benefit-cost
analysis by early 1980.

We identified five potential alternatives to
LAURD—combustion turbine, cogeneration,
intertie power exchanges, load management,
and peak load pricing. However, the Corps
had not thoroughly analyzed these and many
other generating and nongenerating alterna-
tives to LAURD before starting the project.

GAO recently reported that the Pacific

De to ay Gy 5 eS Bare eS | ee

PD y! be SA. a ep ee
Northwest needea improvea icadersnip sn
electric power planning and policymaking.
In our opinion, the questions surrounding
the viability of LAURD represent another
exampue of the leadership void in this region.
No entity is responsible for determining the
best options to meet regional energy needs
or for encouraging utilities and customers
to adopt measures to better manage power
use. Without such leadership and perspec-
tive, independent agencies such as the Corps
can construct multimillion dollar projects
that may be much more costly than other
available options, including load manage-
ment, conservation, and peak load pricing.
As the dominant Northwest power marketing
agency, BPA is the agency best qualified to
assume this leadership role through analysis
of economic, environmental, and social costs
of competing alternatives.
Recommendations

GAO believes that the proposed Libby
project should proceed no further until the
Congress has more information on it. Ac-
cordingly, we recommend that the Secretary
of the Army direct the Chief of Engineers
to recompute and to report to the Congress
the costs and benefits for the project, using
the production cost model approach and
taking care to select the authorized discount
rate, valid power values, and all applicable
costs. As part of this study and included as
part of the Corps’ report, the Secretary of
Energy should direct the Administrator of
the Bonneville Power Administration to con-
duct a comprehensive analysis of peaking al-
ternatives in the region, including the pro-
posed project. This study should measure the
incremental effect of each alternative on
the combined hydro-thermal system, and it
should be the basis for prioritizing alterna-
tives for implementation.

In the longer term, BPA should routinely
prepare and update the analysis of peaking
alternatives. If options such as conserva-
tion, load management and peak pricing
prove to be economically feasible, BPA
should develop and implement equitable
methods to encourage utilities and electricity
customers to adopt them.@

PROPOSED REGULATIONS OF THE
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION

@ Mr. PELL. Mr. President, on Octo-
ber 29, 1979, the Federal Election Com-
mission transmitted to the Senate pro-
posed regulations concerning the Federal
Financing of Presidential Nominating
Conventions.

The Commission is permitted, by law,
to prescribe the proposals as final regula-
tions provided they have not been disap-
proved by either the Senate or the House
of Representatives no later than 30 “leg-
islative days” after receipt. The term,
“legislative day” is, in this instance, any
calendar day on which both the Senate
and the House are in session. Should it
choose to exercise its disapproval power,
the Senate has the statutory right to dis-
approve any provision or series of in-
terrelated provisions stating a single
separate law (2 U.S.C. 438(c) (5)).

Through November 27, 1979, 15 legis-
lative days will have passed.

The proposed regulations are intended
as a substitute for part 120 of title UJ,
Code of Federal Regulations. The regula-
tions generally interpret existing regula-
tions and sections of the Federal Election
Campaign Act. Any new revisions are
based on the Commission’s experience in
the area and on comments the Federal

eS a Re + po pe ee ee

PHOTO Oe He
&iection Commission has received in re-
sponse to its notices of proposed rule-
making.

Copies of the proposed regulations and

@ summary are available from the Sen-
ate Committee on Rules and Administra-
tion, Elections Section, 310 Russell Sen-
ate Office Building (202-224-5647) or
from the Federal Election Commission,
1325 K Street, NW., Washington, D.C.
20463 (202-523-4143). Members of the
Senate are requested to forward any
comments they may have with respect to
these proposed regulations to the Com-
mittee.@
@ Mr. PELL. Mr. President, on Octo-
ber 31, 1979, the Federal Election Com-
mission transmitted to the Senate pro-
posed regulations concerning the ad-
ministration of the Presidential primary
matching payment account. The pro-
posed regulations are generally char-
acterized as revisions of amending reg-
ulations at title II, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, chapter I, subchapter C.

The Commission is permitted, by law,
to prescribe the proposed revisions as
final regulations provided they have not
been disapproved by either the Senate
or the House of Representatives no later
than 30 “legislative days” after receipt.
The term, “legislative day” is, in this
instance, any calendar day on which
both the Senate and the House are in
session. Should it choose to exercise its
disapproval power, the Senate has the
statutory right to disapprove any pro-
vision or series of interrelated provisions
stating a single separate law (2 U.S.C.
438(c) (5)).

Through November 27, 1979, 13 leg-
islative days will have passed.

The proposed regulations generally
affect existing regulations governing the
Presidential primary matching payment
account. Two of the more substantive
proposals are set forth below.

A new subsection was created estab-
lishing a procedure for the Commission
to make a final determination that a
Presidential primary candidate, or his
authorized committee, is ineligible for
matching funds. Such a final determina-
tion may be made if the Commission
makes an initial decision that a candi-
date has knowingly, willfully and sub-
stantially violated the expenditure lim-
itations in section 9035 of title II, Code
of Federal Regulations, before applying
for certification of funds. The affected
candidate is then given notice and af-
forded an opportunity to present mate-
rials to the Commission demonstrating
compliance prior to a final determina-
tion. A final determination of ineligi-
bility by the Commission must be ac-
companied by a written explanation and
the summarized results of any investi-
gation.

Another noteworthy revision requires
that candidates or their authorized com-
mittee(s) certify not only that they will
not, but also that they have not, exceeded
expenditure limitations at section 9035
of title Il, Code of Federal Regulations,
prior to receiving matching funds. The
existing regulation is merely prospective,
requiring only that candidates and their
authorized committees will not exceed
the limitations set forth on the anove
cited section.

Two other amendments and a number
of technical revisions involving the re-
numbering of some existing regulations
are also included in the proposal.

Copies of the proposed regulations are
available from the Senate Committee on
Rules and Administration, Elections
Section, 310 Russell Senate Office Build-
ing (202-224-5647) or from the Federal
Election Commission, 1325 K Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20463 (202-523-4143).
Members of the Senate are requested to
forward any comments they may have
with respect -to these proposed regula-
tions to the committee.e

CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further morning business? If not, morn-
ing business is closed.

CRUDE OIL WINDFALL PROFIT
TAX ACT OF 1979

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
what is the business before the Senate?

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The un-
finished business before the Senate will
be stated by the clerk.

The legislative clerk read as follows:

A bill (H.R. 3919) to impose a windfall
profit tax on domestic crude oll.

The Senate resumed the consideration
of the bill.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
what time does the Senate come in
tomorrow, under the order previously
ordered?

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate comes in at 10 o'clock, under the
previous order.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Are there any
orders for the recognition of Senators?

The PRESIDING OFFICER. There
are none.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I thank the
Chair.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President——

Mr, ROBERT C. BYRD. Does the Sen-
ator wish me to yield?

Mr. McCLURE. Yes.

Mr. President, I withdraw my amend-
ment.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I did not yield for that purpose.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, a parlia-
mentary inquiry. The Senator did yield.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. But I did not
yield for that purpose.

Mr. McCLURE. I withdraw my amend-
ment.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I did not yield for that purpose.

The Senator may have an opportunity
to do it later, but I did not yield for that
purpose.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I do
not need an opportunity later. I exercised
that opportunity now.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I do not yield
for that purpose.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia would have to
yield for that specific purpose.
Mit. MOCULUIVE. Wil, FECSIGEMY, Lie
Senator did not restrict his yielding. He
yielded to the Senator from Idaho, and
the Senator from Idaho withdrew his
amendment.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
will have an opportunity to withdraw
his amendment.

Let us not play games. If the Senator
wanted me to yield for the purpose of
his withdrawing his amendment, he
should have said so, and I may have
yielded for that purpose. But when a
Senator asks this Senator to yield, I do
not expect that Senator to take advan-
tage of me when I do yield, and I yielded
with that understanding. I do not feel
that I ought to have to nail down pre-
cisely the conditions under which I yield
every time I yield to a Senator.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator would have to have the floor in his
own right or be yielded to for that spe-
cific purpose in order to withdraw his
amendment.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, will the
Senator from West Virginia yield to the
Senator from Idaho, without losing his
right to the floor, so that I might make
a statement, a very brief statement?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Yes.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, the
Senator from Idaho is attempting to ex-
ercise his rights under the rule, as the
Senator from West Virginia did earlier
when he interrupted my attempt to yield
to the Senator from Mississippi ——

Mr. ROBERT C, BYRD. Mr. President,
I do not yield for that purpose.

The Senator, if he understands the
rules, ought to know that when he yields
to another Senator to make a statement,
he loses the floor. No Senator, under the
rule, can field out the time to other Sen-
ators and when he yields, he can only
yield for a question. He yielded for a
statement, I sought recognition.

Mr. McCLURE. The Senator from
Idaho was simply attempting to with-
draw his amendment.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I do not yield
any further. If the Senator wants me
to yield —_

- McCLURE. I asked the Senator to
yield.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I will yield for
a statement.

Mr. McCLURE. I just wanted to indi-
cate that I was exercising my right to
withdraw an amendment, or attempting
to, and the Senator from West Virginia
was exercising his right to demand rec-
ognition at the time I yielded earlier
today to the Senator from Mississippi.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. Presi-
dent, I do not yield any further.

Certainly, any Senator who knows the
rules around here—and that is the first
thing he ought to try to learn—should
know that if he gets the floor, he can
only yield for a question. He cannot get
the floor and yield out his time to other
Senators and say, “I recognize this Sena-
tor and I recognize that Senator.” He
cannot do that. When he yields for a
statement, he yields the floor; and when
he does that, he has no gripes coming if
another Senator gets recognition. I
merely acted under the rule.
WAL. WACU IU IVE, WAT. FTESIGeNU, i———

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. When I say
I yield to a Senator and then he at-
tempts to withdraw his amendment—
which carries with it my amendment—
I do not yield for that purpose. I took
it, when the Senator asked me to yield,
that he wanted to ask me a question, or
that he wanted me to yield briefly to him
for a comment.

If we are going to have comity in this
body, we have to continue in a spirit of
understanding, cooperation, and cour-
tesy.

I do not object to the Senator pulling
down his amendment. He has a right
to do that when he gets the floor.

Mr. McCLURE. Will the Senator yield
to the Senator from Idaho for the pur-
pose of withdrawing my amendment?

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. No; I will
not, at this time.

Mr. McCLURE. Then, there is objec-
tion to my——

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. If the Sena-
tor keeps needling me, he may have
difficulty getting his amendment down.
At the moment, I have no objection to
his taking his amendment down—and,
with it, the amendment I offered—but
I am not going to be rushed about it.
I may yield the floor in the next minute
and let him withdraw it.

ORDER FOR ONE VOTE, EN BLOC, ON
FIVE TREATIES TOMORROW

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I would like to get the program in place
for tomorrow.

It is now obvious that the Senate will
not be able to proceed on Saturday with
the airport bill, because that would re-
quire a waiver; and the distinguished
Senator from Maine, the chairman of
the Budget Committee, has indicated
that a waiver will be difficult to secure
before Monday.

There is a window now in tomorrow’s
program which will permit action by the
Senate on some measure other than the
windfall profit tax bill; and if we can
utilize that window and spare the Sen-
ate’s coming in Saturday, I think we
should try to do that.

I understand that it is agreeable with
the managers on both sides of the aisle
that the Senate proceed tomorrow to
the consideration of S. 1918.

Mr. President, under the orders previ-
ously entered, I believe there was to be
one rolicall vote en bloc on treaties on
the Executive Calendar, Nos. 14, 15, and
16; and that there would be one vote en
bloc on Calendar Nos. 17 and 18. That
is in accordance with the previous order.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator is correct.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that there be
only one vote, en bloc, on all those five
treaties.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection? The Chair hears none, and it
is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the 20-
minute order for debate on the first three
treaties, and the 20-minute order for
agepare on tne 10uUrtn anda ith be COn=
solidated, so that there be only 20 min-
utes for the five, and that that time begin
running immediately after the two
leaders or their designees have been rec-
ognized on tomorrow.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

ORDERS FOR PROCEDURE
TOMORROW

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that after the
two leaders’ recognition on tomorrow,
Mr. Sasser be recognized for not to ex-
ceed 15 minutes after which the Senate
go into executive session for not to ex-
ceed 20 minutes to debate Calendar
Orders numbered 14, 15, 16, 17, and 18
on the Executive Calendar, that upon the
completion of that debate the Senate
vote en bloc on those five treaties. The
rollcall has already been ordered. And
I ask unanimous consent that upon the
disposition of the treaties the Senate
then proceed to the consideration of S.
1918, which is under a time agreement,
and that it proceed on that bill until no
later than 1 p.m., after which the Senate
resume consideration of the then un-
finished business.

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, reserv-
ing the right to object, it is my under-
standing then that we will have some-
where around 2 hours on that bill?

I do not object.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

CRUDE OIL WINDFALL PROFIT TAX
ACT OF 1979

The Senate continued with consider-
ation of the bill.

UP AMENDMENT NO. 849

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
there will be no more rollcall votes to-
night.

Mr. President, I ask to be recognized
again.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
as soon as I can clear the request of the
distinguished Senator from Idaho with
Mr. Brab ey, I will yield to the Senator
from Idaho for the purpose of his with-
drawing his amendment. Mr. President, I
am going to yield in a moment to the
distinguished Senator from Idaho (Mr.
McCture) so as to allow him to with-
draw his amendment.

I understand all the possibilities that
may occur in the event his amendment
is withdrawn. Another amendment can
then be offered to the House bill.

I yield to the Senator from Idaho for
the purpose only of his withdrawing his
amendment.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I with-
draw my amendment.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
amendment is withdrawn, and with the
withdrawal of the amendment of the
Senator goes the amendment offered by
the Senator from West Virginia (Mr.
Rosert C. Byrp), and others.

f
,

.
EWIU LANE MUNIN DUSDINEDSS

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that there be no
further action whatsoever in any man-
ner, shape or form on the excess profits
tax bill today; that there now be a period
for the transaction of routine morning
business not to exceed 30 minutes and
that Senators may speak therein for 5
minutes each.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will call the roll.

The assistant legislative clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
Bumpers). Without objection, it is so
ordered.

STATEMENT ON WITHDRAWAL OF
McCLURE AMENDMENT

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I am
not going to respond to the Senator from
West Virginia in any kind of an angry
way, but the Senator from Idaho was
only attempting to exercise the same
rights that any other Member of the Sen-
ate can exercise, and it never occurred
to me that the Senator from West Vir-
ginia would regard the attempt of the
Senator from Idaho to withdraw his
amendment as being otherwise,

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
will the Senator yield?

Mr. McCLURE. I yield.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Of course, I
understand the Senator can withdraw
his amendment. But I think that any
Senator who seeks to do that should at
least let the Senator who has the floor
know the purpose for which he seeks to
get the floor. I would certainly accord the
Senator that courtesy. After all, my
amendment is involved. I had offered an
amendment, on behalf of other Senators
and myself, to the Senator's amendment.
I should think that if the situation were
reversed I would owe the Senator the
courtesy of asking him to yield to me for
that purpose or at least keeping my seat
until he sat down after which I would
not have to ask him to yield. I could
then get recognition and withdraw my
amendment. The Senator could have
done that. I do not question the Sena-
tor’s right to withdraw his amendment.
He knows that.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, again
it is not my purpose to prolong the dis-
cussion except to say that I see nothing
wrong with a Member of the Senate at-
tempting to exercise a right which is not
a controversial right, nor do I under-
stand that any Member of the Senate
must necessarily seek a permission to
exercise a right.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Will the Sen-
ator yield on that point?

Mr. McCLURE. I yield.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
saw that he did have a controversy and
I should think the best way around that

controversy 18 to extend the Kind of
comity to other Senators that he expects
to have extended to himself.

I do not care to carry on this discus-
sion myself. If the Senator wishes to go
on further, he may do so.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator for his remarks. As I said,
I do not intend to do it on the basis of
any kind of an angry exchange at all
but to assure the Senator from West Vir-
ginia that I intended no affront to his
dignity but only an attempt to exercise
what I understand to be the right of 100
Members of this Senate, not 1.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Will the Sen-
ator yield?

Mr. McCLURE. Yes, I am happy to
yield.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
did not affront my dignity. It has been a
long time since I had any dignity, Mr.
President. I do not take myself too seri-
ously. If the good Lord decides to take
me away from here tonight, next week
the Governor of West Virginia will ap-
point another Senator in my place, and
Democrats on this side of the aisle will
elect another majority leader, and I will
just be a name out of the past.

So the Senator has not affronted my
“dignity.”

Mr. McCLURE. I must say that Iam
glad I have not because it certainly was
not my intention to do so.

Again, if I, whatever terminology is
the correct one, in any way offended the
Senator for having attempted to——

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senator
has not offended me.

Mr. McCLURE. Exercise my right
under the rules to withdraw——_

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. He just took
umbrage that I refused to yield for the
purpose that he wanted me to yield when
he had not told me what he was going
to do. He did not offend me. He just
took umbrage because I refused to yield
for that purpose. I suggest we both close
off this bit of comedy and let the Senate
get on with its business.

Mr. McCLURE. Mr. President, I indi-
cate I did not take umbrage. I thought
I had been recognized. I thought the
Senator had yielded to me and I sought
to do what any Senator can do when he
has been recognized which was to with-
draw an amendment which is pending
upon which no action has been taken.

That is all I attempted to do, and Iam
grateful, of course, that the Senator
from West Virginia did not raise any ob-
jection later, after having denied me the
right to the floor at that time, to again
get the floor later for that purpose.

Again it was simply an attempt on my
part to exercise a right which I. like 99
other Senators, supposedly enjoy with-
out sufferance under the rules of this :
Senate.

Mr. President, I yield the floor.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.

THE DEATH OF DAVID WATSON,
FRIEND AND SENATE EMPLOYEE

Mr. MORGAN. Mr. President, I wish
to call the attention of the Senate again
GMM ble V2 UID OVE TP WY AS
tragic accident, airplane crash, that oc-
curred last Sunday in the State of Ala-
bama.

Last Sunday a tragic airplane crash
in the State of Alabama took the life of
David Watson, an employee of the U.S.
Senate and a young man whose friend-
ship I have shared during my service
here. In a very real sense I, like many of
you, watched David grow up for he came
to Washington as a Page about the time
I came to serve in the Senate and re-
mained after graduation from the Page
School to work in the Democratic cloak-
room.

David was a familiar face on the floor
of the Senate. He knew this institution
as well as anyone, and he was dedicated
to serving it and its individual Members.
I cannot count the times he did favors
for me, often personal ones, or went out
of his way to make my job easier. David
had an enviable way with people, identi-
fying and dealing with others in a way
that would put to shame many of us who
pride ourselves on this ability.

It is an understatement to say that I
am saddened by his death. The loss of
this young man to his family, his friends,
the Senate and this Nation has been on
my mind constantly this week. And it has
caused me to contemplate my own mor-
tality.

It has been said that, “All men think
all men mortal, but themselves.” Some-
times it takes a tragedy such as the one
we now mourn to remind us that our days
are not certain, that time is in fact pre-
cious, and that life itself is a precious
gift from God. When we stop to think of
what there is to be done—the tasks to
which duty calls us all—we must consider
how short is even the longest life, how
inadequate for our tasks the seconds, the
hours, the days, the months, the years
allotted to us.

We who serve in this body are lucky
in many ways, and if it is important to
us to leave behind some lasting work to
make our friends proud of our memory,
there is the opportunity to do so. But
David Watson’s life was too short for
“lasting works,” too filled with living
each day and exploring a world which he
found exciting and challenging. So it is
incumbent upon those who knew him,
and shared with him the joys of growing
up and becoming a young man with
promise, to make sure that though there
be no lasting works, no monuments in
granite to his being, that his memory be
preserved and the pleasure of his friend-
ship remembered.

It is not for me to say why a young
man like David Watson would be taken
while standing at the threshold of his
adulthood. I must leave that to the theo-
logians and philosophers to explain. I do
know that we must believe that God is
just and “* * * that somehow good will
be the final goal of all.”

Behold, we know not anything;

I can but trust that good shall fall,
At last—far off—at last, to all,
And every winter change to spring.
‘We have but faith: we cannot know,
For knowledge is of things we see;
And yet we trust it comes from thes,
A beam in darkness: let it grow.
OM VAIS AGEELALY VL ARYA VY eos, 2 TA”
tend my deepest sympathy and my ap-
preciation for their allowing those of us
here in the U.S. Senate to share the joys
of their son's life and his friendship. Be-
cause David was very special to us, we
consider his family very special also and
share with them their grief.

Members of my staff who have been
friends and professional associates of
David Watson during the last 5 years
have asked that I express here on the
Senate floor their sympathy also. I do
so knowing that each of us feels the same
deep sense of loss and, for the moment,
disbelief.

Mr. President, I suggest the absence of
a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clerk
will call the roll.

The assistant legislative clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

HOSTAGES IN OUR EMBASSY IN
TEHRAN

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, as I speak,
the diplomatic efforts to free the 49
American hostages in our Embassy in
Tehran, Iran continue. The situation is
volatile and changes by the hour, but I
would like to address some general points
concerning this outrageous act of inter-
national terrorism.

The takeover of our Embassy is far
more serious than previous attacks on
any of our Embassies. The reason is that
this act took place with the tacit approv-
al of the Ayatollah Khomeini, whose
support for the action came after the
fact. That the leader of a nation has
condoned this must be one of the most
unpardonable acts of recent history.

Our primary concern is, and must be,
the safe release of the hostages and
their safe passage out of Iran. The
situation is extremely delicate for we are
not dealing with a rational government
or conventional terrorists.

The Ayatollah Khomeini lacks cohe-
sive authority, and his only contribu-
tion to date has been to act as a rally-
ing figure. Despite his statements about
restoring calm and order, his actions
and statements have only helped to in-
flame the situation further.

The terrorists who are in control of our
Embassy refuse to recognize any author-
ity except that of Khomeini—a tragic
position, for he has none. There is no
government to negotiate with, and the
occupiers have demonstrated their total
disregard for basic human rights and
international law.

Although I was never a strong sup-
porter of the Shah, and his entry into
the United States precipitated this situa-
tion, I firmly believe that we must not
allow ourselves to be blackmailed.

There are proper legal steps that any
legal government can take to seek extra-
dition of persons accused of crime. Un-
fortunately, Iran lacks both a rational
government and a justice system.
& AMM SUPPULY LHe ACUIONS Laken tO
date by President Carter. Our refusal to
import oil from Iran will cause some
hardship at home, but it is a clear ges-
ture that is long overdue. American for-
eign policy cannot be dictated by oil pro-
ducing nations. Further steps freezing
Iranian assets in this country are neces-
sitated by the continuing deterioration
and lack of any legitimate government in
Teheran.

The controversy surrounding the Ira-
nian students is also being addressed
properly. If they are here illegally, are
breaking U.S. law or are in violation of
their entry visas, they should be de-
ported. I am also concerned about dem-
onstrations by Iranian students in this
country. Such demonstrations heighten
tension and raise the possibility of vio-
lence here that could have dire conse-
quences on the safety of the Embassy
hostages.

I appeal to all my fellow Americans for
calm and patience. The lives of Ameri-
cans in Iran depend on the actions our
citizens take. Our diplomatic efforts con-
tinue to secure the release of the hos-
tages. The United Nations has opened
the question for discussion.

We must move firmly and with one
voice. We will hold Iran accountable for
the safety of the American hostages. We
will take any steps appropriate to protect
their lives and the honor of the United
States.

CARMI DUSO, EAST MONTPELIER,
VT.

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, the fol-
lowing article about one of Vermont's
most distinguished citizens Carmi Duso
from East Montpelier, Vt., recently ap-
peared in the November issue of Snow
Goer.

It has been my distinct pleasure to
know Mr. Duso for many, many years. He
is extremely well respected in Vermont
and he has been one of the people who
has done the most to promote the sport
of snowmobiling in such a way that it
can be enjoyed by people of all financial
backgrounds in our State.

Moreover, he has done it in such a way
that Vermonter’s traditional respect for
the environment has not only been pre-
served but enhanced.

So that the rest of the country can
know this distinguished Vermonter, I ask
unanimous consent that the article be
printed in full in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

Carmi Duso: A VERMONT YANKEE IN SNOW-
MOBILING’s CouRT
(By Bill Glitz)

Carmi Duso is a walking and talking para-
dox. He is a man struck by incurable wander-
lust, yet he was employed by the same com-
pany and lived in the same small town for
41 years. He’s traveled in every state, yet has
taken little time to examine their well-
known landmarks. His personality leans
towards quietude and patience; but his sub-
tle tongue can cut to the quick. At 75, when
most people are savoring the memories of
life, Duso races around the countryside on
his snowmobile grumbling about companions
half his age who can’t keep up. When most
men are enjoying retirement, Duso has ac-
cepted a whole new set of challenges.

Duso, who looks 15 years younger and acts
25 years younger than his age, retired in 1968
after 41 years with the telephone company.
Just about this time, a series of events dras-
tically altered his life. First, he discovered
snowmobiling and bought his first machine.
Then, Duso’s wife died and he moved from
his hometown of Enosberg Falls, Vermont, to
the state capital of Montpelier where he mar-
ried his deceased wife’s sister. That same
year, Duso and the Vermont Association of
Snow Travelers (VAST) found each other.
Today, 10 years later, Carmi Duso is consid-
ered the personification of VAST.

In 1972, several VAST members nominated
Duso for that organization's presidency. He
declined to run. After the incumbent presi-
dent was re-elected, the organization asked
Duso to be its first executive director. Duso
accepted the nonpaying job.

“I thought I'd stay at the job until the
organization could get on its feet,” he says.

Today, seven years later, Duso is still on
the job, but now he receives a nominal sal-
ary. He also supervises two employees in the
VAST office, located on the second floor of
the Montpelier Elks Lodge building. It’s office
space that Duso helped negotiate and re-
model to suit the needs of the growing state
snowmobile users organization.

During his seven year tenure, Duso has
done every conceivable association-related
task—from the most mundane to the most
lofty—in order to help VAST grow and sta-
bilize as a viable organization.

In addition to helping remodel the VAST
Office, he has painted and hung a sign out-
side identifying the site as VAST headquar-
ters. He has delivered snowmobile films to
groups throughout the state, many times fill-
ing last minute requests. He helped design
a VAST exhibit and on numerous occasions
has set up and manned that exhibit. He
serves as the business manager for the VAST
newspaper, but, of course, fills. other duties
for the publication. He has solicited member-
ships from snowmobilers throughout the
state. He has blazed new trails, cleared trails,
and maintained trails. He has obtained ease-
ments, He has written, designed, and distrib-
uted literature. He has organized trail rides.

But most importantly, he has been an
extremely successful lobbyist with the Ver-
mont legislature. In fact, Vermont's progres-
sive and model snowmobile legislation is a
tribute to the hard work and persistent ef-
forts of Carmi Duso.

In 1973, Vermont passed its first snowmo-
bile legislation; but it wasn't until 1977 that
the state had a snowmobile tral! development
program, known as the State Snowmobile
Trails Program or SSTP. That program today
is being carried out through contract by
VAST .. . in other words, Carmi Duso. The
legislation which set up SSTP is Duso's great-
est triumph as executive-director of his orga-
nization. The triumph did not come easy.

According to Duso, the original state snow-
mobile legislation, which emphasized safety,
law enforcement, and registration, glided
smoothly through the legislature because the
governor at the time was a snowmobiler who
threw his support behind the bill. When it
came time, in 1977, for the legislature to con-
sider setting up a snowmobile trails pro-
gram, Vermont had a new governor who was
not a snowmobiler and who, while not op-
posed to the plan, was cool to the idea.

“If a governor is in favor of some legisla-
tion, it’s fine; if not, you've got trouble,” is
how Duso sums up the civics lesson learned
from this situation.

Duso explains that one of the reasons sen-
timent was running against the trails pro-
gram, both with the new governor and among
legislators, was neither wanted to add to the
state’s bureaucracy at a time when citizens
were demanding austerity. The proposed leg-
PS Oe a ee

e SP ae

islation called for a state-run Division of
Snowmobilers to coordinate the trails pro-
gram. Duso quickly went about designing a
compromise to save the idea. The new plan
called for the state to contract with VAST to
coordinate the trails program. Funding for
the $200,000 annual contract would come
from snowmobile registration fees and a
$75,000 appropriation from the Vermont
Agency of Transportation, money collected
as snowmobile gas taxes.

Since the compromise was not drawn up
until the state legislature was about to ad-
journ in the spring of 1978, it became doubt-
ful whether the bill could clear both houses
of the legislature in time. The bill passed the
House, but it was still hung up in the Senate
on the last day of the session. Only because
Duso had won over to his cause the leuten-
ant governor, who presides over the Senate,
did the bill beat the adjournment deadline,

The legislation was signed by the governor
in May, and the contract between the state
and VAST was signed in September.

“This was awful late in the year to stuart
a trails program,” Duso confesses, “but we
went right at it. We expect this to be a three-
to five-year program to construct about 500
miles of corridor trails.”

According to Duso, the plan makes VAST
the first snowmobile association to adminis-
ter its own trails program with state funds.
The International Snowmobile Industry As-
sociation praised VAST and Duso for the
agreement, saying in a widely distributed let-
ter: “. . . a number of provincial and state
associations can use the VAST proposal as a
blueprint for their own submissions to gov-
ernment, so that similar programs are under-
way in other jurisdictions before long. The
Vermont Association of Snow Travelers has
earned the respect of elected state officials,
state and federal government administrators,
media officials, and the general public
through extremely diligent effort and leader-
ship... . The most visible symbol yet of
that respect and trust occurred when it was
authorized by the state to implement and
administer the Vermont public snowmobile
trail program.”

‘This model piece of legislation, hammered
out at the last second, is mainly the crafts-
manship of a 75-year-old man who confesses
to no special expertise as a professional lob-
byist. By his own admission, Carmi Duso ts
not an extrovert or as he puts it, “I’m no
glad-hander.”

“T've never been one to party with people
or go buy people a drink,” is the way he sums
up his lobbying shortcomings.

Duso’s strengths lie in his honesty, stub-
bornness, and enterprise. He works hard and
he works smart. He refuses to give in. And he
believes if he can’t be trusted, then he has
lost his most valuable asset.

“You have to work at this day after day.
You have to get to know the legislators, but
more importantly, they have to trust you.

“You've got to tell the truth in this busi-
ness,” he says with great emphasis. “If you
don't, you're in trouble. It’ll backfire on
you.”

While not allowing himself the luxury of
deceit, Duso did allow himself the luxury of
disappointment. “Some days I got so dis-
couraged I’d leave the Capital and think,
‘What am I doing this for?’ Then, the next
day, you have to be ready to go at it again.”

‘This practical perseverance is the essence
of his Yankee personality. And make no
doubt about it, Carmi Duso is a true Yankee.
VAST Office Manager Corrine Lawson de-
scribes him: “To people overseas, a Yankee
is an American. In the South, a Yankee is
someone north of the Mason-Dixon Line. In
the North, a Yankee is someone from New
England. In New England, a Yankee is some-
one from Vermont. And in Vermont, a Yankee
is someone who has apple pie with cheese for
breakfast. Carmi has apple pie and cheese
every morning.”
OPK aS rt SO orMhst es Cree BAM F, Ooacni rt

O2Rormr

@iarte

Onegai srPadir"o®e

One of Lawson's favorite yarns about her
boss takes place when he was a young man
still living with his parents. One day, young
Duso came home and announced that he was
going away on a trip and would try and keep
in touch. Two years later, he returned from
his trip. During those two years, Duso had
harvested wheat in western Canada, worked
in a Washington logging camp, and explored
Alaska. It was the first sign of Duso’s incur-
able curiosity concerning what's around the
next corner or over the next hill.

When Duso returned to Enosberg Falls, a
small town near the Canadian-Vermont bor-
der, he took a job with the local telephone
company. For the next 41 years, Duso lived in
Enosberg Falls and worked for the phone
company,

Earlier, it was mentioned that Duso bought
his first snowmobile in 1968. He 1s quick to
point out that this was not his first encoun-
ter with a snowmobile. About 1930, Duso re-
calis using a large tracked vehicle which rode
over the snow when he was out checking tele-
phone lines. Duso calls the machine “the
forerunner of today’s snowmobile."” When the
independent telephone company serving
Enosberg Falls sold out to New England Tele-
phone Company, the tracked vehicle disap-
peared. Carmi! Duso had to wait more than
30 years to rediscover the snowmobile. How-
ever, he rediscovered it at probably just the
right time of his life.

Duso had led an active, vigorous life until
his retirement from the telephone company
in 1968. The question of “What was he going
to do with his life?” was nicely answered
when he found snowmobiling. And VAST
helped turn it into something more than
recreation. Carmi! Duso had a whole new set
of challenges.

Duso loves the winter outdoors. He has said
that “I would rather be blowing snow than
mowing grass.” He also knows the longevity
statistics of people who retire to nothing.

“Once you get in a rocking chair, you stay
there. That’s it, you've had it," he says in his
clipped New England accent.

When asked if he would enjoy being more
active in a warmer climate, Duso responds:
“I worked 41 years for the phone company.
Thad to go to work every day... outdoors...
no matter what the weather was like—snow,
sleet, cold, rain, hail. I just got used to being
outdoors in all kinds of weather. You learn
to accept it. It becomes a part of your life.
I like the winter.”

Duso also has been an active outdoorsman
for most of his life. He was an avid and
skilled skler until he hurt his ankle in a mid-
life skiing accident. He tried to ski again but
he couldn’t do it—at least not with the com-
petence that he once possessed. Carmi Duso
doesn’t like to regress, so he got rid of his
skis.

He's also been a skater and snowshoer, as
well as an avid deer and bear hunter. Like
skiing, he has given up these pursuits.

“That's part of the beauty of snowmobil-
ing, it's something older people can enjoy,”
Duso explains as he sits among topographi-
cal maps in his office. “I know many older
couples around here who did nothing but sit
in rocking chairs and watch television, es-
pecially in the winter. Then they bought a
snowmobile. Now, these couples spend most
of their time riding. It’s been wonderful. So
many of these people have been able to see
all of their farmland for the first time be-
cause of the snowmobile. You can get on that
snowmobile and see country and scenery
you'd never see otherwise.”

Duso staunchly defends snowmobiling
against some of its critics by drawing on his
own expertise and experience. “I like to snow-
shoe; I used to do plenty of it. But yesterday
I was out with my neighbor and we rode our
snowmobiles for 25 miles. Well, if you snow-
shoed for most of the day, you wouldn’t
get that far. You can just cover so much

nowmobile.”

‘The only thing that Duso seems to mind
is the lack of recreational snowmobiling.
He pointed out that often he is so busy blaz-
ing, clearing, maintaining, and signing trails
that he doesn’t get a chance to just ride.

“Why, it was February this winter before
my neighbor and I had a chance to really
ride,” he says. “Every other weekend, we were
out towing a sleigh doing some kind of work
on the trails.”

And then comes an admission which pro-
vokes an insight into the real joy of snow-
mobiling for Duso.

“I enjoy long ride-ins the most. To me,
this is the nicest part of snowmobiling. Just
last weekend, we went all the way to Pitts-
burgh, New Hampshire, where we stayed in
a lodge overnight and then rode back the
next day. To me, this is what snowmobiling
is all about, but there seem to be fewer and
fewer of these long rides. Most clubs and or-
ganizations seem to be dropping them be-
cause they can’t afford to make the invest-
ment to schedule one and then have the
weather ruin it. So, the real group ride-ins
are disappearing. It’s too bad.”

This lament for the passing of organized
long-distance rides indicates that Duso
really views snowmobiling as a form of s0-
clalization. This is a key part of his infatua-
tion with the sport and why he cherishes
those cross-country excursions. It’s an op-
portunity for a group of people to share an
adventure. After it’s over, they can get to-
gether and relive the experience again and
again. It’s this group experience which Duso
loves, and maybe that’s one of the reasons
why he recognizes the importance of a state-
wide trails program. A sense of interlocking
statewide snowmobile trails would give snow-
mobilers many chances for these group ad-
ventures, especially older snowmobilers who
so much enjoy and appreciate them.

In his desire to participate in cross-coun-
try snowmobile rides, Duso 1s merely trying
to duplicate another one of his loves—the
long distance automobile trip. Duso is
famous for his highway and byway travels.
As mentioned earlier, Duso has been in all
50 states and every Canadian province.
Duso’s trips are unstructured and unen-
cumbered. Corrine Lawson can remember
Duso calling the VAST office during one of
his trips. Lawson asked her boss where he
was. Duso had to stick his head out of the
telephone booth to find out the answer to
that question from his wife.

Duso drove all the way to Alaska a couple
of years ago just to look things over since
the last time he was there 40 years ago, and
to look up an old friend from his logging
days in the West. Although he had no idea
if his former companion still lived in the
area, Duso searched around Juneau for
several days, checking off names in the phone
book, until he found him. Each year, Duso
visits one of his daughters in Minnesota,
and trips to Montreal and Boston are like
driving around the block.

Duso believes that the journey is the ex-
citement of traveling. When he gets to his
destination, he's ready to move on to the
next stop. Duso is not one to tour land-
marks or take the Gray Line Tour. He’s been
known to tell any passengers if they want to
see the local sights they better look out the
window of his vehicle.

This is a perfect traveling philosophy of
a die-hard enthusiast who emphasizes the
thrill of the ride rather than where the ride
will end. Like his automobile journeys,
Duso's snowmobile trips concentrate on
what's around the next turn in the trail or
over the next rise. Duso often shows little
interest in where he and his snowmobile
are. And when he reaches his destination,
his interest continues to focus on what lies

the anticipation of it all. Perhaps, this is
how he views life, also. The excitement that
keeps him going is the interesting things
that may lie ahead. Carmi Duso may think
of life as one circuitous journey with the
real fun being the surprise of what's around
the next corner. This is why he needed the
new challenges that VAST brought to his
life.

Occasionally, Duso takes one of his long
distance automobile jaunts during the win-
ter, but he does so with great fear and trépi-
dation.

For instance, he took his wife to Florida
in the spring of 1978. Shortly after he left
Vermont, New England was hit with a tre-
mendous spring snowstorm. As Duso heard
about the snow piling up back home, he
cursed his luck for having to endure the
sunny South. When he finally returned home,
he grumbled around the VAST office for sev-
eral days about all the good riding he had
missed.

To avoid such occurrences, most of Duso's
traveling is confined to the warmer weather
months. Not only does he not want to miss
any snowmobiling, but his responsibilities
as executive director of VAST keep him on
the job most of the winter. Because of the
job that he has done with the snowmobile
group, he has won the admiration and respect
of the VAST membership and snowmobile
leaders throughout North America. Duso at-
tends most international snowmobile meet-
ings where he and his opinions are often
sought out.

“These meetings are extremely important
to VAST and to snowmobiling,” he says. “We
get a chance to talk with people from other
states and provinces to see how they're doing
things. It’s very important, this exchange of
ideas.”

Mort Doyle, president of the International
Snowmobile Industry Association, verifies the
respect that is reserved for Duso throughout
the snowmobile industry.

“Year after year, Carmi has been quietly
getting the Job done for snowmobilers and
for snowmobiling—in the State of Vermont
and at the regional, national, and interna-
tional levels,” Doyle has written. “. . . Carmi
Duso is known and respected by the snow-
mobiling leadership throughout the North
American snowbelt.”

Carmti’s good friend, Norman Hayes, a past
president of VAST, offers this view of Duso
as a lobbyist: “He has the respect of every-
one (at the Statehouse). He never says too
much, but when he speaks, they listen. Carmi
has never lost a single point with the legis-
lature. Carmi has never made any mistakes
that were costly to VAST.”

And how does Carm! Duso react to such
adulation. “I'm thankful I've been blessed
with good health so I can participate in
snowmobiling and be of some help.”

It was a typical Duso understatement .. .
and typically paradoxical coming from such
an obviously proud man.

Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I suggest
the absence of a quorum.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
Morcan). The clerk will call the roll.

The assistant legislative clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I yield to the
distinguished majority whip for the
purpose of his making a statement.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.

gQeoeor

eo

nmeoes como tramMmen efoavnonwst Foeernw Geo So

Ks men en

Mem wAd Ph se Sa oe Om,

ey ee
ON IRAN

Mr. CRANSTON. Mr. President, last
night President Carter addressed the
American people on the current situa-
tion in Iran, where U.S. diplomatic per-
sonnel are held hostage in violation of
“not only the most fundamental precepts
of international law but the common
ethical and religious heritage of hu-
manity.”

I believe the President spoke for all of
us and has the full support of the
American people.

Islam is one of the great religions of
the world. It advocates a very personal,
individualist ethic. It is a religion of
justice.

The Islamic respect for human rights
and dignity arises from the command of
the Qur’an (Koran) “whoever kills one
man has killed the whole of humanity,
and whoever has saved one man has
saved humanity” (5:32). Consistent
with this command, Islamic law always
has recognized diplomatic immunity—
one does not kill or jail the king’s mes-
senger. And Islamic international law
existed a thousand years before Grotius,
the father of Western international law.

Thus the taking of diplomatic hostages
by Iran is contrary to all the ethical
teachings and principles of Islam, both
Shiite, and Sunni, and is illegitimate un-
der every principle of Islamic law. The
present actions in Iran are a religious
and legal aberration contrary to the very
foundation of every Islamic nation, in-
cluding Iran. They must be viewed as a
move of political desperation by the Aya-
tollah Khomeini and not as an expres-
sion of anything Islamic.

It is clear that there is no conflict
between the United States and the na-
tions of Islam. And the people of Islam
should not be misled by the false and
irresponsible charges that the United
States was involved in the seizure of the
mosque in Mecca or in any other sacre-
ligious or anti-Islamic act.

Nor is there a lack of unity among
Americans regarding the imperative of
gaining the immediate, safe, and uncon-
ditional release of our diplomatic per-
sonnel held in Iran. Any suggestion that
we are divided on this matter is both
erroneous and dangerous. Americans are
united on this question regardless of race,
religion, or political persuasion. The only
lack of unity which exists in the Iranian
situation is within Iran itself—where it
is clear to observers throughout the
world that the Ayatollah Khomeini is
desperately struggling to retain power
by making scurrilous charges against the
United States and the West while stifling
the more moderate voices among the
Tranian people.

The principle at issue in Tehran is
simple. The Iranian authorities are hold-
ing diplomatic personnel hostage in an
attempt to blackmail the United States
for domestic political purposes. This ac-
tion is contrary to the historical and es-
sential rule of relations between nations.
It is now incumbent upon all the nations
of the world, acting through the United
Nations, to reaffirm their commitment to
immunity and reject Khomeini’s attempt
to blackmail the United States. Until the
Iranian leadership relents and releases
the hostages unharmed, the United
States cannot and will not discuss any
other issues of mutual concern to the
United States and Iran.

Mr. President, I wish to commend the
President for his presentation last night.
I wish also to congratulate my colleagues
in the Senate and our colleagues in the
House for their action yesterday in
unanimously adopting Senate Resolution
292, expressing the unity of Congress on
the imperative of the immediate, safe,
and unconditional release of our diplo-
matic personnel in Iran.

JUSTICE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT
ACT OF 1979—CONFERENCE REPORT

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I submit a report of the committee of

conference on S. 241 and ask for its im-
mediate consideration.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The re- "

Port will be stated.

The assistant legislative clerk read as
follows:

The committee of conference on the dis-
agreeing votes of the two Houses on the
amendment of the House to the bill (S. 241)
to restructure the Federal Law Enforcement
Assistance Administration, to assist State and
loéal governments in improving the quality
of their justice systems, and for other pur-
poses, having met, after full and free con-
ference, have agreed to recommend and do
recommend to their respective Houses this
report, signed by a majority of the conferees.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, the Senate will proceed to the
consideration of the conference report.

(The conference report is printed in
the House proceedings of the Recorp of
November 16, 1979.)

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I move that the conference report be re-
committed to the committee of confer-
ence.

The motion was agreed to.

INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM
APPORTIONMENT AUTHORIZATION

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask that the Chair lay before the Sen-
ate a message from the House of Repre-
sentatives on H.R. 5871.

Mr. President, for the moment I with-
hold that request. I will pursue it shortly.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate go into executive session for not to
exceed 1 minute, to consider the nomi-
nation under New Reports and the nomi-
nations in the Coast Guard placed on the
Secretary’s desk.
ane STEVENS. No objection, Mr. Pres-
ident.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I ask unani-
mous consent that the nominations be
considered en bloc.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without

CXXV—2142—Part 26
ered and confirmed en bloc.

The nominations confirmed en bloc are
as follows:

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

Inez Smith Reid, of New York, to be In-
spector General.
NOMINATIONS IN THE Coast GuarRD PLACED ON

THE SecreTaRY’s Desk

‘Coast Guard nominations beginning Alan
C. Peck, to be captain, and ending David E.
Ciancaglini, to be captain, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record on No-
vember 6, 1979.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Presi-
dent be immediately notified of the con-
firmation of the nominations.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I move to re-
consider, en bloc, the vote by which the
nominations were confirmed en bloc.

Mr. STEVENS. I move to lay that mo-
tion on the table.

The motion to lay on the table was
agreed to.

LEGISLATIVE SESSION

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I move that
the Senate resume the consideration of
legislative business.

The motion was agreed to.

INTERSTATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM
APPORTIONMENT AUTHORIZA-
TION

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask that the Chair lay before the Sen-
ate a message from the House of Repre-
sentatives on H.R. 5871.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
will be stated by title.

The legislative clerk read as follows:

An act (H.R. 5871) to authorize the ap-
portionment of funds for the Interstate Sys-
tem, to amend section 103(e) (4) of title 23,
United States Code, and for other purposes.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. I ask unani-
mous consent that the bill be considered
as having been read twice, and that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

The bill was considered, ordered to a
third reading, read the third time, and
passed.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I move to reconsider the vote by which
the bill was passed.

Mr. STEVENS. I move to lay that mo-
tion on the table.

The motion to lay on the table was
agreed to.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.

I withdraw that suggestion.

ORDER FOR RECESS FROM CLOSE
OF BUSINESS FRIDAY UNTIL 10
A.M. ON MONDAY, DECEMBER 3,
1979

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the

oar eee Me eA So ee

PmMmsar
RHE We or. edi she: coenape ree edt bees cD

it stand in recess until the hour of 10
o’clock on Monday morning.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. BAYH. Mr. President, I do not
want to interrupt, but if the majority
leader was about to call for a quorum, I
would like to relieve him of that task and
ask for recognition.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I yield the floor.

THE RETIREMENT OF GEORGE
MEANY AS PRESIDENT OF THE
AFL-CIO AND THE ELECTION OF
LANE KIRKLAND AS HIS SUC-
CESSOR
Mr. THURMOND. Mr. President, the

retirement of George Meany as Presi-

dent of the AFL-CIO brings to a close a

remarkable career in the American labor

movement which had a profound effect
on public policy and the general welfare
of the country. Since the days shortly
after the close of World War I, Mr.

Meany was a part of labor leadership—

first in New York City; then, in New

York State; and finally, for 27 years on

the national scale.

Although we often differed on matters
of labor law and economic policy, we
agreed on the institutions of freedom in
America. He stood four-square against
the incursions of communism into the
labor movement and into the free world.
He was an unabashed patriot who knew
full well the advantages of our system of
government and constitutional liberty.

I am pleased to salute him as a re-
spected leader who always acted in what
he believed to be the national interest.
After more than 60 years in the ranks
of organized labor, the last 23 of which he
held the top position, he has earned the
esteem of both his colleagues and his ad-
versaries, and I extend to him my best
wishes for his retirement.

Mr. President, I should also like to
convey my congratulations to Mr. Lane
Kirkland who has been elected to suc-
ceed Mr. Meany as AFL-CIO President.
Mr. Kirkland is a native of my own State
of South Carolina, and it is particularly
pleasing to me when South Carolinians
achieve such success in their chosen
fields.

Mr. Kirkland, through his years in the
No. 2 position of labor, has established a
reputation for effectivness and depend-
ability, and I commend him for these
demonstrated qualities which led to his
selection as the top man in organized
labor.

Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that an editorial from the Washing-
ton Star regarding the change in leader-
ship at the top of the AFL-CIO be
printed in the Recorp.

There being no objection, the article
was ordered to be printed in the Recorp,
as follows:

LaNE KIRKLAND AND THE AFL-CIO

When a job like George Meany’s changes
hands after so many decades, it’s almost as
much of an event as a presidential election.
Some people would say more of an event—
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, for ex-
ample, has made the point that it often
matters iess tO tne navion wimen 6 mM Sie
White House than who is running the AFL—
CIO. Which puts Lane Kirkland up there
with all the would-be presidential nominees
as a man to know.

What has been best-known up to now
about the soft-spoken secretary-treasurer of
the largest American labor organization is
that, since the time he became George
Meany’s executive assistant in 1960, he has
never openly disagreed with the boss on any
important issue. Yet Lane Kirkland is a very
different sort of person from the man he
succeeds as head of the AFL-CIO.

While both men have spent almost their
entire careers as union bureaucrats, Mr.
Meany came to the labor movement as an
authentic plumber. Mr. Kirkland came as a
middle-class liberal who didn’t like what
he saw in the Carolina cotton mills. He is
the first Southern Protestant to reach the
top of a movement identified in the past
chiefly with Catholics and Jews from the big
cities of the North.

Mr. Kirkland is a formidably articulate
intellectual who first made his mark as a
speechwriter. He was the primary voice in
framing the ethical codes that drove the
Teamsters out of the AFL-CIO in the 1950s.
He did so well at writing a social insurance
plan for the unions back in 1948 that there
were insurance companies trying to hire him.

Such a person often turns out to be more
interested in words and ideas than in the
rough-and-tumble of running a big organi-
zation and asserting its claims in the poli-
tical arena. Although Mr. Kirkland is sus-
pected of being as strong-willed as George
Meany himself, nobody knows yet if this
will be true of him. However, his tempera-
ment may incline him more toward negotia-
tion than showdowns.

The speech he made when he took over
showed a conciliatory spirit toward the
Teamsters and the United Automobile Work-
ers, the two biggest formerly affiliated unions
now outside the AFL-CIO. He had already
shown his eagerness to end old estrange-
ments by testifying in court for the Long-
shoremen’s Anthony Scotto. Clearly, Mr.
Kirkland considers his first task to be con-
solidating the labor movement at a time
when it has been losing numbers and power.

More than one towering American labor
leader has demonstrated that nobody can
tell the union rank and file how to vote.
There is simply no delivering labor support
to any candidate or party chosen from the
top.

At the same time, the influence of labor
leaders on political issues beyond labor’s
bread-and-butter interests can be pro-
found. Certainly the AFL-CIO’s stand on
human rights, defense and anti-communism
has had a strong impact on national policy.

Lane Kirkland is, if anything, even more
interested in foreign affairs than George
Meany. He is also, if anything, even more
of a hawk and human rights champion than
his predecessor. His name on the letter-
head of the Committee on the Present
Danger suggests how he feels about com-
™Munism. Haying an Israeli wife has inten-
sified his commitment to the defense of
Israel.

What Mr. Kirkland will do about labor’s
role in the economy is less apparent. His
readiness to go along with a “national ac-
cord" between labor and the administration
on policies affecting wages and living costs
suggests some of the new directions union
strategy may take. So does the presence of
a union representative in the management
of the Chrysler corporation. But all we know
for sure is that the options and problems
are considerably more complicated than they
were in the days when Samuel Gompers
COMMS CUE UP WERE CRUE WEEIVOM 25) WIS WUE
“More.”

INTERNATIONAL SUGAR AGREE-
MENT, 1977

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
as in executive session, I ask unanimous
consent that in addition to the five trea-
ties already ordered to be voted on to-
morrow, Executive Calendar Order No. 8,
Executive A, 95th Congress, 2d session,
the International Sugar Agreement, 1977,
be included in that list.

Mr. President, I withdraw that request.

I ask unanimous consent that the 20-
minute time limit for debate on the five
treaties be expanded to 30 minutes, the
time to be equally divided between the
Senator from New York (Mr. Javits)
and the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
CHURCH) on tomorrow.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Upon the dis-
position of the five treaties by a vote en
bloc, as previously ordered, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Senate then pro-
ceed to vote on Executive Calendar Or-
der No. 8, Executive A, 95th Congress, 2d
session, the International Sugar Agree-
ment, 1977, before returning to legisla-
tive session.

The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
Braptey). Without objection, it is so
ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
has that treaty passed through the vari-
ous parliamentary stages up to and in-
cluding the presentation of the resolu-
tion of ratification?

The PRESIDING OFFICER. It has not.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that Executive
A, 95th Congress, 2d session, Execu-
tive Calendar Order No. 8, the Interna-
tional Sugar Agreement, 1977, be con-
sidered as having passed through the
various parliamentary stages, up to and
including the presentation of the resolu-
tion of ratification.

Mr. STEVENS. Mr. President, there is
no objection.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, the agreement will be consid-
ered as having passed through its various
parliamentary stages, up to and includ-
ing the presentation of the resolution of
ratification which the clerk will state.

The assistant legislative clerk read as
follows:

Resolved (two-thirds of the Senators pres-
ent concurring therein), That the Senate
advise and consent to the ratification of the
International Sugar Agreement, 1977, signed
on behalf of the United States of America at
the Headquarters of the United Nations in
New York on December 9, 1977 (Ex. A, Ninety-
fifth Congress, second session) .

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that there be
no time for debate, no motion be in or-
der, no point of order and no appeal in
relation to the International Sugar
Agreement, and that the vote on that
agreement be had immediately upon the
disposition of the five treaties previously
ordered.
the PRESIUING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that upon the
disposition of the International Sugar
Agreement, the Senate return immedi-
ately, without debate, to legislative ses-
sion on tomorrow.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD subsequently
said: Mr. President, has a rollcall vote
been ordered yet on the sugar agree-
ment?

The PRESIDING OFFICER. It has
not.

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. President,
I ask for the yeas and nays, as in execu-
tive session, on the sugar agreement.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second? There is a sufficient
second. t

The yeas and nays were ordered.

PROGRAM

Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. Mr. Presi-
dent, I will state the program for tomor-
row. If Iam in error at any point, I wish
the Chair would correct me.

The Senate will convene at 10 o'clock
tomorrow morning. After the two lead-
ers, or their designees, have been recog-
nized under the standing order, Mr. Sas-
SER will be recognized for not to exceed
15 minutes, after which the Senate will
go into executive session. And after 30
minutes of debate, to be equally divided
between Mr. Javits and Mr. Cuurcu, the
Senate will proceed to vote en bloc, a
rolicall having already been ordered, on
Executive Calendar Orders numbered 14,
15, 16, 17, and 18: to the extradition
treaty with the United Mexican States,
the extradition treaty with Japan, the
extradition treaty with Norway, the
treaty with the Republic of Turkey on
the enforcement of penal judgment, and
the treaty with the Republic of Panama
on the execution of penal sentences.

Upon the disposition of these five
treaties en bloc, the Senate, without fur-
ther debate, will proceed to vote by roll-
call on the International Sugar Agree-
ment, Executive Calendar Order No. 8,
Executive A, 95th Congress, 2d Session.

Immediately upon the disposition of
that treaty, the Senate will return to leg-
islative session, at which time it will
proceed with the consideration of S.
1918, the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment Act, on which there is a time agree-
ment. I expect rollcall votes in relation
to that measure but, under the order
previously entered, the Senate will pro-
ceed no later than 1 o’clock to resume
consideration of the unfinished business,
the windfall profit tax bill, H.R. 3919.

If S. 1918 has not been completed by
1 o’clock, S. 1918 will be temporarily laid
aside until such time as the majority
leader, after consultation with the mi-
nority leader or his designee, shall again
call up that measure. That has been
agreed to by unanimous consent.

Mr. STEVENS. There is no objection.
That was my understanding.

The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ROBERT C. BYRD. The Senate
then will proceed, during the remainder
of the afternoon, on the excess profit tax
bill.

‘The manager of the bill, Mr. Lone, told
me several days ago that it would be im-
possible for him to manage that bill on
Saturday because of arrangements which
he had previously entered into many
months ago, or weeks ago, at least, on the
theory that the Senate would have com-
pleted action by this time on H.R. 3919.
Consequently, the majority leader, work-
ing with the distinguished acting Repub-
lican leader, and the Republican leader,
and other Senators had scheduled for
Saturday’s consideration S. 1648, a bill
to provide for the improvement in the
Nation’s airport and airway system, to
be followed by the votes on the treaties
numbered 17 and 18 on the calendar, to
be followed by S. 1918.

It having become obvious, based on
the statement of the distinguished

HOUSE OF REPR!

The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker bos tem-
Pore (Mr. WRIGHT).

DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
‘TEMPORE

The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following communi-
cation from the Speaker:

WasuincrTon, D.C.,
November 28, 1979.

I hereby designate the Honorable Jiu
Wricut to act as Speaker pro tempore on
Thursday, November 29, 1979.

Tuomas P. O'NEILL, Jr.,

Speaker of the House of Representatives.

PRAYER

The Chaplain, Rey. James David Ford,
D.D., offered the following prayer:

Almighty God, we raise our voices in
praise for your goodness and providence
to our Nation through the years. This
day we continue our supplications and
ask Your blessing upon us and upon
those to whom much responsibility is
given. We pray specially for the Presi-
dent of the United States that he will
be sustained in the duties of his office
and know the power and presence of
Your Holy Spirit. Grant to all in author-
ity the wisdom to discern truth and
justice and mercy, and may each of us,
whatever our task, witness to those good
deeds that bring aid to people in need
and glory to Your name. Amen.

MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE

A message from the Senate, by Mr.
Sparrow, one of its clerks, announced
that the Senate had passed without
amendment a bill of the House of the
following title:

H.R. 4483. An act for the relief of Jung-
Sook Mun.

(0 This symbol represents
®@ This “bullet” symbol identi

chairman of the Budget Committee, Mr.
MusktEz, that a budget waiver could not
be ready before Monday of next week on
the Nation’s airport and airways system,
thus making it improvident and probably
impossible to proceed with that bill on
Saturday and, in the meantime, a win-
dow in tomorrow’s program having de-
veloped, which may be a very fortuitous
happening and which may, in the end,
expedite action on the excess profit tax
bill, it has been decided by the joint
leadership to attempt to place into that
window tomorrow S. 1918 and, thus, re-
move it from consideration on Saturday.

That being the case, Mr. President,
there will be no Saturday session because
of the circumstances that have developed
as aforementioned.

ato

ae SS ee eee. | ee 8 ee

RECESS UNTIL 10 AM. TOMORROW

Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I move, in
accordance with the order previously

-ESENTATIVES—Thursda:

S The message also announced that the
- Senate agrees to the report of the com-
mittee of conference on the disagreeing
votes of the two Houses on the amend-
ments of the House to the bill (S. 1871)
entitled “An act to extend the existing
antitrust exemption for oil companies
- that participate in the agreement on an
- international energy program.”

The message also announced that the
Senate disagrees to the amendment of
the House to the amendment of the Sen-

« ate to the bill (H.R. 4986) entitled “An
+ act to amend the Federal Reserve Act to
authorize the automatic transfer of
funds, to authorize negotiable order-of-
withdrawal accounts at depository in-
stitutions, to authorize federally char-
tered savings and loan associations to
, establish remote service units, and to
authorize federally insured credit un-
, ions to maintain share draft accounts,
» and for other purposes,” agrees to
; the conference asked by the House on
| the disagreeing votes of the two Houses
L
$

Se

thereon, and appoints Mr. Proxmire, Mr.

WILLiaMs, Mr. Cranston, Mr, Garn, and
- Mr. Tower to be the conferees on the
| part of the Senate.
: The message also announced that the
Senate had passed a concurrent resolu-
tion of the following title, in which the
concurrence of the House is requested:

S. Con. Res. 55. Concurrent resolution di-

recting the Secretary of the Senate to make
corrections in the enrollment of S. 1871.

THE JOURNAL

The SPEAKER. The Chair has ex-
amined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
his approval thereof.

Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.

the time of day during the House Proceedings
tifies statements or insertions which are not spoke

“5b 3

entered, that the Senate stand in recess
until the hour of 10 a.m. tomorrow.

The motion was agreed to; and at 5:4:
p.m. the Senate recessed until Friday
November 30, at 10 a.m.

CONFIRMATIONS

Executive nominations confirmed by

the Senate November 29, 1979:
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

Inez Smith Reid, of New York, to be In-
Spector General, Environmental Protection
Agency.

The above nomination was approved sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to responc
to requests to appear and testify before an}
duly constituted committee of the Senate.

In THE Coast GuaRD

Coast Guard nominations beginning Alan
C. Peck, to be captain, and ending David E
Ciancaglini, to be captain, which nomina-
tions were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the CoNGRESSIONAL REcoRD on No-
vember 6, 1979.

ay, November 29, 1979

1e
=
1g
l-
)

=

roorrttr mod

artasonr

o

ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE

The SPEAKER pro tempore. The Chair
desires to announce that pursuant to
the authority granted the Speaker on
Wednesday, November 28, the Speaker
did on that day sign the following en-
rolled bill:

S. 1157. An act to authorize appropriations
for the purpose of carrying out the activities
of the Department of Justice for fiscal year
1980, and for other purposes.

SUPPORT FOR THE PRESIDENT’S
POSITION ON IRAN

(Mr. SKELTON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)

Mr. SKELTON. Mr. Speaker, I wish
to commend our President on his ap-
pearance last night before the Washing-
ton press corps and the Nation. He ex-
hibited a deep resolve to solve the hos-
tage crisis through a peaceful solution.
I compliment him on his strong stand
wherein he vowed that this Nation will
never yield to blackmail.

His words were loud and clear that
there will be grave consequences that
will result if harm comes to the hostages.
Our country is firmly behind the Presi-
dent and his resolve. We, as a people,
will stand together and will be a nation
united to see this tragic situation through
to the end. We will not be intimidated,
we will not be bullied, and we will not
shirk in our resolve.

When the President spoke last night,
he spoke ably and well for all Americans.

nnn

DIRE CONDITIONS FACING DOMES-
TIC METALS INDUSTRIES

(Mr. ATKINSON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1

igs, e.g. [) 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
‘ken by the Member on the floor.

